[[!meta title="Marking a task as easy"]]

We think that having issues flagged as "easy" on Redmine is a great tool
to help new contributors getting into Tails. Here are a few criteria to
help us determine which issues to put in this category.

We want to allow people with very different skills to contribute to
Tails for the first time. Programmers, web designers, documentation writers, or
translators should be able to find tasks that they can complete without
having to acquire a deep knowledge of Tails or to learn how to use tools
that are outside of their field of expertise.

Creating an easy task
=====================

When creating an easy task, try to write a description that is as helpful as
possible to someone who is new to the project:

  - Describe precisely what to achieve and the skills needed.
  - Explicitly link to useful resources (eg. code), information (eg. threads),
    etc.

General
=======

- Not easy:
  - Has subtasks or is blocked by other issues.
  - Needs to be split to be actionable.

Audit & Research
================

- Not easy:
  - Interacts with several subsystems of Tails.

Code
====

- Easy:
  - Write a patch that doesn't need to rebuild Tails.
- Not easy:
  - The first solution that comes to your mind is not the right one.
  - Interact with several subsystems of Tails.
  - Rework on a first attempt to code that failed because things were
    more difficult that they seemed at first glance.
  - Have specific hardware for the task.

Discuss
=======

- Not applicable.

Documentation
=============

- Easy:
  - Write user documentation.
- Not easy:
  - Use Git or send patches.

Promote
=======

- Easy:
  - Explain how to use Tails as described in the documentation.
- Not easy:
  - Explain how Tails work based on the design document.
  - Speak on behalf of Tails.

Sysadmin
========

- Not easy:
  - Have privileges on Tails infrastructure.
- Easy:
  - Work that can be tested locally, for example using a virtual
    machine.
  - Work on programs that achieve one-time goals.
  - Write Puppet patches.

Test
====

- Easy:
  - Test behaviour of Tails using the GUI.
- Not easy:
  - Code or build a dedicated testing infrastructure.

Translate & Website
===================

- Not easy:
  - Use Git or send patches.

Wait & Communicate
==================

- Easy:
  - Send nice emails to ask for updates.
