[[!meta title="Document progress"]]

# Create and update ticket

When a developer works on a task, she should create/update a ticket related to
the task. All the knowledge useful to the others should be kept there (or at
least linked from there). She should take care of updating this ticket's
properties so that they reflect the actual status of the task, and especially the
next thing to do for it to be solved.

The tickets are stored in [[!tails_redmine "" desc="Redmine"]].

When committing changes that will resolve a ticket once merged, please
consider including `will-fix: #NNNN` in the commit message, _NNNN_
being the ticket number. Then, Redmine will automatically flag the
corresponding ticket as "In Progress" once the branch is pushed to our
main [[Git repository|contribute/Git]]. For example:

    Remove tails@boum.org duty from frontdesk (Will-fix: #8420)

This keyword should be used only in topic branches, or when committing
directly in the master branch. When merging topic branches into
development branches, you should used the [[`fix-committed`|merge_policy#fix-committed]] keyword
instead.

# Report progress or failure

It is important for the team to know whether somebody is feeling responsible to
make a task happen, or that it's a wishlist/patches-welcome/don't-care-that-much
(would be great, but *We* don't feel committed to make it happen any time soon).

Thus, it is great to state if you'd like to do it, but also to state if you
won't do it anymore. Don't feel guilty: it's better if we all know it won't happen
soon rather than you feel presured while having other priorities!

