[[!meta title="GitLab source code and bug tracker"]]

Tails issues and code are managed in [[!tails_gitlab "" desc="GitLab"]].

This page focuses on aspects of GitLab usage that are specific to Tails.

This workflow is not set in stone: it will evolve based on what
we learn while using GitLab.

For general GitLab usage information, see the
[[!tails_gitlab help/user/index.md desc="GitLab user documentation"]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Getting started

If you were using Redmine previously, read [[how to transition to
GitLab|GitLab/transition]]. Else, to create your GitLab account, visit the
[[!tails_gitlab users/sign_in desc="registration page"]] in a web browser.

Then you will be allowed to open new issues, create merge requests, and fork
your own copy of our repositories.

Later on, you will probably need to:

 - [[!tails_gitlab profile/keys desc="Add your SSH key"]]
   to your GitLab account
 - [[Request more credentials|GitLab#request-access]]

The first time you connect over SSH to a Git repository hosted on our GitLab,
you will be prompted to verify the server's SSH host key. Here are the
corresponding fingerprints:

 - ECDSA: `SHA256:AOj9ec6hRjN7fNnjXMlmPum7dZWRd5oJKAuo4UGAxxs`
 - Ed25519: `SHA256:mtZeDs2+KKLZ8kJOvmrGoTCuszqc29DOyH6MZaqtlss`
 - RSA: `SHA256:JuwD+e+wOas+2JtDdF0BHu+9RAIJOhWI+2VkjuZ6Znk`

# Group and projects

All our work is tracked in projects under the [[!tails_gitlab tails
desc="tails group"]].

The main Git repository and most issues live in the [[!tails_gitlab tails/tails
desc="tails/tails project"]].

<a id="metadata"></a>
# How we use GitLab metadata

On GitLab, issues and merge requests have metadata.

Being consistent in the use of GitLab metadata makes collective work
smoother.

## Title and description

The title should be a short but clear description of what this is about.
Some people are case sensitive, please try to consider that.

<a id="status"></a>
## Status

### Open issues

Each open issue can have up to 1 status label:

 - _To Do_: it would be good if someone worked on this issue

 - _Doing_: someone is actively working on this issue

 - _Needs Validation_: a resolution has been proposed and needs to be reviewed.
   For details, see our [[merge policy|/contribute/merge_policy]].

The main advantage of using these labels is to organize and visualize issues on
[[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/issue_board.html desc="Issue Boards"]].

Some teams use a workflow that depends on accurately using these labels.

Apart of that, you may consider these labels as optional.

### Closed issues

Closing an issue means one of:

 - The bugfix or feature the issue is about:

    - was merged and will be in a future release
    - or is already available to our users

   The _Milestone_ value tells in which case we are.

 - We've rejected it.

   For example: it does not fit into Tails' mission,
   or the problem shall be resolved elsewhere than in Tails.

   To reject an issue, create a comment that:

    - explains why you're rejecting it
    - adds the _Rejected_ label (`/label ~Rejected`)

 - It duplicates another issue.

   To mark an issue as a duplicate, create a comment that:

    - mentions the other, duplicated issue
    - adds the _Duplicate_ label (`/label ~Duplicate`)

<a id="assignee"></a>

## Assignee

We use the _Assignee_ field in a way that helps us organize our
work as a team, focus on what matters most currently, and avoid
individual over-commitment & feelings of failure.

To this aim, most tasks should be up for grabs for anyone who has spare capacity
and the required skills: [Don't Lick the
Cookie](https://www.benday.com/2016/10/21/scrum-dont-lick-the-cookie/).

So in general, issues and merge requests should not be assigned to anyone.

This being said, we do assign them if at least one of these conditions is
met:

 - Someone is actively working on it.

 - The task is both important and urgent.

 - The milestone is set to the next Tails release.
   See the [[milestone|GitLab#milestone]] section for details.

 - We did all the work we could on this task already and now have to
   track progress on a blocker that we cannot address ourselves.
   For example, regularly tracking progress and pinging on patches
   we've submitted upstream.

 - Only one of us can complete the task. This helps identify
   bottlenecks, high bus factor, and over-commitment.

 - Sponsor deliverables that are managed under the "let's decide
   a long time in advance who exactly will do each task" paradigm.

 - It is about the parent tracking issue for a large project with several
   subtasks that will be tackled by different people, and we need
   someone to coordinate the project.

<a id="milestone"></a>

## Milestone

Different teams and contributors use the _Milestone_ value differently:

 - Some teams try their best to treat it as a commitment, that other Tails
   contributors should be able to rely on.
 - Others use it as a pool of tasks they want to have on their short-term radar.

For issues that are on the Tails [[!tails_roadmap]], the milestone is set
to a year, until it makes sense to target a specific release.

Postponing to the next milestone more than once is not business
as usual — it's a red flag. Ideally, the underlying problem should be identified
and addressed: for example, the assignee might need help or be over-committed;
the team could be under-staffed; or perhaps the task should simply not have
any milestone in the first place.

## Priority

Every open issue must have exactly 0 or 1 of these labels:

 - _P:Low_: it would be good to do this, but it's unlikely
   that current Tails contributors find time to work on it
   any time soon
 - _P:Normal_, or no such label: this is the general case
 - _P:Elevated_
 - _P:High_
 - _P:Urgent_

See the
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/labels?search=P%3A
desc="list of priority labels"]].

## Category

We classify issues with labels whose name starts with _C:_.

For example, _C:Email Client_ or _C:Installation_.

See the
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/labels?search=C%3A
desc="list of category labels"]].

## Type of work

To indicate the type of work that's needed to complete the next step
on an issue, we use labels whose name starts with _T:_.

For example:

 - _T:Debian_: the work shall be done in Debian
 - _T:End-user documentation_: everything below [[doc]] and [[support]]
    on our website
 - _T:Contributors documentation_: everything below [[contribute]]
    on our website
 - _T:Wait_: we are waiting/tracking actions we need non-Tails
   people to do, outside of Tails
 - _T:Website_: website work not covered by other options

See the
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/labels?search=T%3A
desc="list of type of work labels"]].

## Other labels

 - _Starter_: issues flagged as *Starter* can be a good pick for new contributors.
   [[Learn more|contribute/working_together/criteria_for_starter_tasks/]].

## Relationships between issues

Arguably, GitLab CE is a bit limited when it comes to expressing semantic
relationships between issues. Here is how we can overcome these limitations.

### Parent/subtask and Blocks relationship

A GitLab issue can have a
[[!tails_gitlab help/user/markdown.html#task-lists desc="task list"]].

Every task is a task list can be:

 - free-form text

 - a `#NNNN` link to another issue, that needs to be closed
   before the issue with the task list can itself be closed.

### Related issues

You can list related issues either in the description or in a comment.

Either way, this adds a message in the Activity stream of the
referenced issue, with a link to the referencing issue.

## Confidential issues

You can make an issue
[[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/issues/confidential_issues.html desc="confidential"]]
when creating it or at any later time.

A confidential issue is visible only by:

 - whoever created it
 - project members with at least
   [[!tails_gitlab help/user/permissions.html#project-members-permissions
   desc="Reporter"]]
   access; that is, for our [[!tails_gitlab tails/tails desc="main GitLab
   project"]]: most past and present Tails contributors

<div class="caution">

Only share the URL of an attachment with people you want to allow downloading
that file.

In contrast with Redmine, that enforced access control on attachments, with
GitLab, anyone can download <emph>any</emph> attachment if they know its URL.
This applies equally to attachments added to a confidential issue.

</div>

If your team regularly manipulates confidential data, then its issues live under
a dedicated GitLab project, with a different set of members, and possibly
only visible to project members.

<a id="document-progress"></a>
# How to document progress

## Create and update issues

When you start working on a task, update the corresponding GitLab issue, after
creating one if needed: replace any status label with the *Doing* label.
For details about labels, see [[metadata|GitLab#metadata]].

All the knowledge useful to the others should be kept on that issue,
or at least linked from there.

Please keep the issues you are working on updated, so that they reflect the
actual status of the task, and especially the next thing to do for it to
be completed.

When committing changes that will resolve an issue once merged, please
include `#NNNN` in the commit message, _NNNN_
being the issue number. Then, GitLab will automatically reference this
commit on the corresponding issue, once the branch is pushed to our
[[Git repository|contribute/Git]]. For example:

    Remove tails@boum.org duty from frontdesk (#8420)

## Report progress or failure

It is important to:

 - Keep the team informed of how you feel committed to issues assigned to you,
   and about the timeline you're envisioning.
 - Avoid individual over-commitment & feelings of failure.

If you don't think you will manage to work on an issue any time soon,
it's often best to make this clear on the issue, or to de-assign yourself.

For details, see how we use the [[assignee|GitLab#assignee]]
and [[milestone|GitLab#milestone]] information.

# How to propose, review, and merge changes

We use [[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/merge_requests/index.md desc="Merge Requests"]]
(aka. MRs) to propose, review, and merge changes.

See:

 - [[how to propose, review, and merge changes|contribute/merge_policy]]
 - [[how to participate in discussions|GitLab#discussions]]

# How to request and provide input

<a id="discussions"></a>

## How to participate in discussions

You can comment on issues and merge requests.
Our [[contribute/working_together/code_of_conduct]] applies.

If you want to start a new discussion, please use _Start thread_ instead of
_Comment_: a thread can be marked as resolved, while a comment cannot.
This helps keeping track of which discussions have reached a conclusion,
and which ones are still pending.

To start a thread, type your message and choose _Start thread_ in the
_Comment_ split button.

[[!img start_thread.png link="no" alt=""]]

For more information, see the GitLab documentation about [[!tails_gitlab
help/user/discussions/index.md desc="Discussions"]].

## Requesting input from someone else

If you need input from someone else on an issue or merge request,
ask your question in a comment there, mentioning them
with their GitLab login name: `@nick`. GitLab will send them
an email notification about it and add it to their To-Do list.

If you want to raise attention of every single member of a team, mention it with
the name of the corresponding [[!tails_gitlab explore/groups desc="group"]]:
`@xyz-team`. GitLab will send an email notification about it to every member
of this group, and add it to their To-Do list.

Please note that the `root` user is part of all groups only because it is used
for the administration of our GitLab instance. There's no human being behind
that account and its notifications are turned off. Do not expect to receive
answers from that user, make sure to mention other appropriate users and groups
instead.

## Acting upon input requests

It's important to provide requested information as quickly as you can,
to make the Tails contribution process more efficient and enjoyable.

When input is requested from you on an issue or merge request with `@nick`:

 - GitLab adds an item in your
   [To-Do list](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/dashboard/todos).

 - GitLab may send you an email notification

   Please ensure your GitLab email notification settings and your email setup
   allow you to receive and notice these messages.

When you receive such a request, if you cannot provide the requested input
immediately, you're responsible for keeping track of this task, for example via
the To-Do list, or by creating a new issue assigned to yourself, or using
whatever personal organization tools work for you.

# Email interface

Using the email address registered with your GitLab account,
you can:

 - Stay informed of what's happening in GitLab

   To do so, enable email
   [[!tails_gitlab help/user/profile/notifications.html desc="notifications"]].

 - Participate in [[!tails_gitlab help/user/discussions/index.md desc="discussions"]]
   on issues and merge requests, modify issues metadata

   To do so, reply to an email notification you've received from GitLab.

   Write your email just as if you [replied from the
   web].
   In particular:

    - Write your email in
      [[!tails_gitlab help/user/markdown.html desc="Markdown"]].
    - You can use
      [[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/quick_actions.html desc="Quick actions"]].

 - Create new issues

   See [[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/issues/managing_issues.html#new-issue-via-email desc="New issue via email"]]
   in the GitLab documentation.

<a id="api"></a>

# Scripts that use the GitLab API

We have several scripts that query or manipulate data using the GitLab API:
for example, [[!tails_gitweb bin/generate-changelog]] and [[!tails_gitweb
bin/generate-report]].

To use them:

* Install a recent enough `python3-gitlab` Debian package:

        if [ "$(lsb_release --short --codename)" = buster ]; then
           sudo apt install python3-gitlab/testing
        else
           sudo apt install python3-gitlab
        fi

* Configure your `~/.python-gitlab.cfg`.

  You need at least this content:

        [global]
        ssl_verify = true

        [Tails]
        url = https://gitlab.tails.boum.org
        per_page = 100
        private_token = XXX

  In the `Tails` section, set the value of the `private_token` option to a
  GitLab API token for your own user. To generate such a token,
  visit [[!tails_gitlab profile/personal_access_tokens]].

* If you are working from Tails, run the scripts using `torsocks`.

<a id="core-work"></a>

# Core teams' work

Some of the teams who do
[[Core work|contribute/working_together/roles]] (be it paid or done on
a volunteer basis) maintain GitLab metadata in order to:

 * provide visibility on what they doing & their priorities;

 * give the Tails community some power over setting these priorities;

 * encourage the Tails community to help core workers define their
   priorities: they sometimes have a hard time deciding by themselves
   how they should spend their time on what matters the most to
   the project.

To track this, these teams use
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/labels?utf8=✓&search=Core+work
desc="labels whose name starts with *Core work*"]].

The teams who use this mechanism are more than happy to get feedback
about these priorities: both addition and removal suggestions are
welcome. Please check the mission statement for the corresponding team
first, to ensure you're not asking them to do something that's outside
of the scope of their job. And please justify your suggestions.
Please check these views once in a while and talk to us! :)

<a id="ci"></a>

# GitLab CI

Tails system administrators are currently experimenting with [[!tails_gitlab
help/ci/README.md desc="GitLab CI"]] for some quality assurance checks that
don't require building or booting Tails images: [[!tails_gitlab
tails/sysadmin/-/issues/17740]].

## Experimental

Please consider this work as experimental and don't rely on it for making
decisions. In particular:

 - Don't trust the CI runners. As a consequence, don't trust the results of
   CI pipelines.

 - Don't rely on the CI runners being in working shape.

*Why?* Because the CI runner we are using at the moment is running on a test
infrastructure, that's not managed in the same way as our production
infrastructure. For example, it is not automatically monitored, and security
updates are not consistently applied in a timely manner.

We will let you know once our GitLab CI setup is in production.

## Feedback and patches are welcome

Please [[give feedback and
input|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/#communication]] about this
topic to Tails sysadmins.

For example, you can propose new tests that we could run on GitLab CI.
Please explain what the expected benefit would be for your work or for Tails
users: this will help us prioritize our work.

Finally, you can send merge requests that improve the existing jobs
or add new ones: [[!tails_gitweb .gitlab-ci.yml]].

<a id="access-control"></a>

# Access control

<a id="request-access"></a>

## Requesting access

If you need to do something in GitLab and you appear to lack the
needed credentials, please ask the Tails
[[system administrators|working_together/roles/sysadmins#communication]]
to grant you more power.

For example, you will need "Reporter" access on the [[!tails_gitlab
tails/tails]] project in order to add labels or assign issues.

## Adding/removing access

Do not grant access via the web interface:

 - Such manual changes would be later overwritten by automated processes.
 - Manual changes can easily have side effects that violate our access control
   requirements.

Instead, after following the relevant process (if any),
request the access modification from the Tails
[[system administrators|working_together/roles/sysadmins#communication]].

## Relevant GitLab doc

 - [[!tails_gitlab help/user/permissions.html desc="Permissions"]]
 - [[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/merge_requests/authorization_for_merge_requests.html desc="Authorization for Merge requests"]]
 - [[!tails_gitlab help/user/project/protected_branches.html desc="Protected Branches"]]
 - [[!tails_gitlab help/user/group/index.md desc="Groups"]]

## Access levels

We use the [[!tails_gitlab
help/user/project/merge_requests/authorization_for_merge_requests.html#protected-branch-flow
desc="Protected branch flow"]]:

 - Our major branches and release tags are marked as "Protected".
 - Committers get "Maintainer" access.
 - Regular, particularly trusted contributors, who are not granted full commit
   access but have access to our CI, get "Developer" access. They can push
   a topic branch to the canonical Git repository and our CI will pick it up.
   They can also modify any non-protected topic branch.
 - Other contributors get access strictly lower than "Developer".
   They push topic branches to their own fork of the repository and
   create merge requests.
 - Our Jenkins CI jobs generation process is the same as in pre-GitLab days.

<a id="operations"></a>

# Operations

See our documentation about [[GitLab for Tails
sysadmins|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins/GitLab]].
