[[!meta title="Accessibility"]]

Tails and the GNOME desktop include assistive technologies to support users
with various impairments and special needs, and to interact with common
assistive devices.

[[!toc]]

Universal access menu
=====================

You can activate most of these technologies from the universal access menu (the
[[!img lib/preferences-desktop-accessibility.png alt="Universal Access" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
icon which looks like a person) in the top bar:

[[!img introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/accessibility.png link="no"
alt="Universal Access menu with the following options (disabled
by default): High Contrast, Zoom, Large Text, Screen Reader, Screen Keyboard,
Visual Alters, Sticky Keys, Slow Keys, Bounce Keys, and Mouse Keys"]]

These technologies are documented in more details in the
[GNOME universal access documentation](https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/a11y.html).

Keyboard shortcuts
==================

<table>
<tr><td>Turn screen reader on or off</td><td>Alt+Super+S</td></tr>
<tr><td>Turn zoom on or off</td><td>Alt+Super+8</td></tr>
</table>

To access the universal access menu using the keyboard:

1. Press <span class="keycap">Ctrl+Alt+Tab</span> to move the keyboard
   focus to the top bar.

1. Use the arrow keys on the keyboard to select the universal access
   menu.

1. Press <span class="button">Enter</span> to open the menu.

1. Use the up and down arrow keys to select items in
   the menu.

1. Press <span class="button">Space</span> to toggle the selected
   item.

1. Press <span class="button">Esc</span> to close the menu.

Screen reader
=============

To hear screen elements spoken to you, you can activate the
<span class="guilabel">Screen Reader</span> accessibility feature.

For more detailed documentation refer to the official [<span
class="application">Orca</span> Screen Reader
documentation](https://help.gnome.org/users/orca/stable/).

<div class="bug">

<p>The screen reader takes around 10 seconds to start.</p>

</div>

<div class="bug">

<p>The screen reader does not work with the <span class="application">Unsafe
Browser</span>.</p>

</div>

Screen keyboard
===============

If you prefer a pointing device over the keyboard, you can activate the
<span class="guilabel">Screen Keyboard</span> accessibility feature.

For more detailed documentation refer to the official
[<span class="application">GNOME</span> Screen Keyboard documentation](https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/keyboard-osk.html.en).

<span class="application">Dasher</span> graphical text entry application
========================================================================

If you are operating a computer one-handed (by joystick, touchscreen,
or mouse) or zero-handed (by head-mouse or eyetracker), you can use the <span
class="application">[Dasher](http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher/)</span> graphical predictive text
entry application.

<span class="application">Dasher</span> is available from
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Universal Access</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Dasher</span></span>.
