[[!meta title="Install additional software"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Which additional software can I install in Tails?
=================================================

Tails includes a [[limited set of applications|doc/about/features]] but
you can install more software.

This software is distributed in packages that are made available from the Debian repositories,
which are similar to an app store.

To know which packages are available in Debian:

- Browse locally with
  the <span class="application">Synaptic Package Manager</span>:

  1. [[Set up an administration password
     |first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] when you start Tails.

  1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Synaptic Package Manager</span></span>.

  1. Wait until <span class="application">Synaptic</span> finishes downloading new package information
     from the Debian servers.

  1. You can:

     - Browse the packages by sections from the left sidebar.

     - Search on titles and descriptions of packages with the <span class="button">Search</span> button.

- Search the Internet for alternatives to other software.

  For example: "*debian alternatives to photoshop*".

- Ask a friend who is knowledgeable about Linux.

- Search the [Debian website](https://www.debian.org/distrib/packages#search_packages).

<a id="warning"></a>

Being careful about what you install
------------------------------------

<div class="caution">

<p>The packages included in Tails are carefully tested for security.
Installing additional packages might break the security built in Tails, so be
careful with what you install.</p>

</div>

If you are unsure:

- Packages that use the network need to be configured to go through
  Tor. They are otherwise blocked from accessing the network.

- Some software might, for example, modify the firewall and break the security
  built in Tails. But other software like games or office tools are probably fine.

- Software not [[officially included in Tails|about/doc/features]] might have not been tested for security.
  We also cannot provide support or documentation for it.

- Only applications that are packaged for Debian can be installed and they are
  under [[public scrutiny|doc/about/trust#trust_debian]].

Installing additional software
==============================

To install a package using <span class="application">Synaptic</span>:

1. [[Set up an administration password
   |first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] when you start Tails.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Synaptic Package Manager</span></span>.

1. Click <span class="button">Search</span> and search for the name of the package.

1. Right-click on the name of the package in the search results and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Mark for
   Installation</span>.

1. <span class="application">Synaptic</span> calculates the additional changes for your package to work. Click <span class="button">Mark</span> to confirm those changes.

1. Click <span class="button">Apply</span> to download, install, and
   configure the package.

<div class="tip">

<p>If you are comfortable with the command line, you can use the <span
class="command">apt</span> command instead.</p>

</div>

Installing additional software automatically when starting Tails
----------------------------------------------------------------

To do so, you need to enable the [[<span class="guilabel">Additional
Software</span> persistence feature|persistence/configure#additional_software]].

After a package is installed using <span class="application">Synaptic</span> or
<span class="command">apt</span>, a notification appears to ask if you want to install this package
every time you start Tails in the future.

[[!img additional_software/add-additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

- If you choose <span class="button">Add to Persistent Storage</span>,
  the package is saved in the persistent storage and will be reinstalled
  automatically every time you start Tails.

  The package will also be updated automatically when you connect to the
  Internet.

- If you choose <span class="button">Install Only Once</span>, the
  package is also saved in the persistent storage but won't be
  reinstalled automatically every time you start Tails.

  The same package can be reinstalled faster for some time because you
  won't have to download it again.

Additional configuration
------------------------

Some packages require additional configuration to work. To keep the
configuration across Tails sessions, you can use the [[<span
class="guilabel">Dotfiles</span> persistence
feature|first_steps/persistence/configure#dotfiles]].

Checking your list of additional software
=========================================

To see which packages are installed automatically
every time you start Tails, choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Additional Software</span></span>.

[[!img additional_software/additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

Click the <span class="button">[[!img lib/window-close.png
class="symbolic" link="no" alt=""]]</span> button to remove a package from the list.

The same list is also available from the configuration of the persistent storage, by clicking on the
[[!img lib/emblem-system.png class="symbolic" link="no"]] button of the <span class="guilabel">Additional
Software</span> feature.

[[!img persistence/persistent-storage.png link="no" alt=""]]

Removing additional software
============================

When you installed the package, if you chose:

- <span class="button">Install Only Once</span>, you can remove it by restarting Tails.

- <span class="button">Add to Persistent Storage</span>, you can remove it:

  - Using <span class="application">Additional Software</span>:

    1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Additional Software</span></span>.

    1. Click the <span class="button">[[!img lib/window-close.png
       class="symbolic" link="no" alt=""]]</span> to the right of the name
       of the package.

       [[!img additional_software/additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

  - Using <span class="application">Synaptic</span>:

    1. [[Set up an administration password
       |first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] when you start Tails.

    1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Synaptic Package Manager</span></span>.

    1. Click <span class="button">Search</span> and search for the name of the package.

    1. Right-click on the name of the package in the search results and choose
       <span class="guimenuitem">Mark for Removal</span>.

    1. Click <span class="button">Apply</span> to remove the package.

  - From the command line using <span class="application">apt</span>.

  After the package is removed, a notification appears to ask if you want to
  remove this package from your list of additional software.

  [[!img additional_software/remove-additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

Freeing space in your persistent storage
----------------------------------------

After you installed many packages that you are not using anymore, you can free some space in your persistent storage:

1. [[Set up an administration password
   |first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] when you start Tails.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span>Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

       apt clean

Configuring additional APT repositories  (for advanced users)
=============================================================

<div class="caution">

<p>The packages available in Debian are
submitted to public scrutiny.</p>

<p>Configuring additional APT repositories might break the security built in
Tails and might install software that has not even been approved by Debian. Be even more careful
with what you install.</p>

<p>This step is usually not needed to install additional software and might be necessary
only in very rare occasions.</p>

</div>

Sometimes, you might need to configure additional APT repositories. For
example, to install packages from the `non-free` section of Debian. To do so:

1. [[Set up an administration password
   |first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] when you start Tails.

1. Create an <span class="filename">apt-sources.list.d</span> folder in your
   persistent volume:

       sudo install -d -m 755 /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/apt-sources.list.d

1. Edit <span class="filename">/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/persistence.conf</span>,
   the configuration of the persistent volume, as root and add the
   <span class="filename">apt-sources.list.d</span> folder as a persistence
   feature of type `link`:

       /etc/apt/sources.list.d	source=apt-sources.list.d,link

1. Write your additional `sources.list` files in the
   <span class="filename">apt-sources.list.d</span> folder. For example, to add
   the `non-free` sections of Debian Jessie, backports, and security
   updates, you can create a file named
   <span class="filename">/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/apt-sources.list.d/non-free.list</span>
   with the following content:

       deb tor+http://ftp.us.debian.org/debian/ jessie non-free
       deb tor+http://ftp.us.debian.org/debian/ jessie-backports non-free
       deb tor+http://security.debian.org/ jessie/updates non-free

   File names must end with
   <span class="filename">.list</span> and may only contain the following
   characters: letters, digits, underscore, hyphen, and period.

1. Correct the ownership and permissions of your additional `sources.list`
   files to be owned by `root` and only readable by others. For
   example:

       chown root:root /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/apt-sources.list.d/non-free.list
       chmod 644 /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/apt-sources.list.d/non-free.list

1. Restart Tails to apply the changes.
