[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick or SD card"]]

Tails includes <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> a custom
installer for USB sticks and SD cards.

<div class="note">

<p><span class="application">Tails Installer</span> can only install Tails on a
USB stick or SD card of <strong>at least 4 GB</strong>.</p>

</div>
In order to use <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>, you need
to start Tails from another media, and clone it onto the device of your
choice, USB stick or SD card. To do that, you can either:

  - **[[Burn a Tails DVD|download#support]]** (recommended).
  - **Use another Tails USB stick or SD card**, for example from a friend.
  - **[[Manually install Tails onto another USB
    stick or SD card|installation/manual]]**, if you cannot use a DVD.

Using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> allows you to
later **[[create a persistent volume|persistence]]** in the free space
left on the device.

Using Tails Installer
=====================

<div class="caution">

<ul>
<li><strong>All the data on the installed device will be
lost.</strong></li>
<li><strong>This operation does not [[securely
delete|encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] the lost data on the
installed device.</strong></li>
<li><strong>This operation does not copy the persistent volume of the
device which is being cloned.</strong></li>
</ul>

</div>

1. Start Tails from another media than the device, USB stick or SD card,
   onto which you want to install Tails.

2. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

3. To install onto a new device, click on the <span class="button">Clone &
   Install</span> button.

4. Plug the device onto which you want to install Tails.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick or SD card, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose this new device from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

6. To start the installation, click on the <span
   class="button">Install Tails</span> button.

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

<div class="next">

<p>After the installation completes, you can [[start Tails|/download/#start]]
from this new device.</p>

</div>
