[[!meta title="Introduction to GNOME and the Tails desktop"]]

The desktop environment used in Tails is [GNOME](https://www.gnome.org).
This page describes some important features of the desktop in the context of
Tails.

[[!toc levels=3]]

<h1 id="top-navigation-bar">Top navigation bar</h1>

In the upper left corner of the screen there are two menus:

  - the <span class="guimenu">Applications</span> menu
  - the <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu

<h2 id="applications">Applications menu</h2>

The <span class="guimenu">Applications</span> menu provides shortcuts to the
[[included software|about/features]] and to GNOME configuration utilities.

[[!img applications.png link=no alt=""]]

<a id="help"></a>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/help-browser.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
  <span class="guimenuitem">Help</span>: to access the <span class="application">GNOME Desktop Help</span> choose
  <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Help</span></span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/preferences-system.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
  <span class="guimenuitem">Settings</span>:
  to change various system settings such as keyboard, mouse and touchpad,
  or displays choose
  <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Settings</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Devices</span>
    </span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="tip">

<p>To learn about the many keyboard shortcuts in GNOME,
open the <span class="application">Settings</span> utility and choose
<span class="guimenuitem">Devices</span>&nbsp;▸
<span class="guimenuitem">Keyboard</span>.</p>

</div>

<div class="next">

By default, any such customization is reset when shutting down Tails. Read the
documentation on the [[Persistent Storage|persistence]] to learn which configuration can be
made persistent across separate working sessions.

</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/seahorse.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
  <span class="guimenuitem">Seahorse</span>:
  to manage your OpenPGP keys choose
  <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Passwords and Keys</span></span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/help-about.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
  <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>:
  to know the version of Tails that you are currently running, choose
  <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span></span>
  </div>
</div>

<h3 id="favorites">Favorites submenu</h3>

In the <span class="guisubmenu">Favorites</span> submenu, a few
shortcuts allow you to launch the most frequently used applications:

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tor-browser.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Tor Browser</strong> to browse the web anonymously and uncensored<br/>
[[See our documentation on browsing the web with <i>Tor Browser</i>|anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tor-connection.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Tor Connection</strong> to connect to the Tor network<br/>
[[See our documentation on connecting to Tor|anonymous_internet/tor]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tails-persistence-setup.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Configure persistent volume</strong> to create and configure a Persistent Storage on your Tails USB stick<br/>
[[See our documentation on the encrypted Persistent Storage|persistence]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tails-help.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Tails documentation</strong> to open an offline version of the Tails website and documentation, embeded in Tails<br/>
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/whisperback.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>WhisperBack Error Reporting</strong> to report problems about Tails to our team<br/>
[[See our documentation on reporting an error|bug_reporting]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tails-installer.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Tails Installer</strong> to clone Tails to another USB stick<br/>
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/thunderbird.png link=no]]
<div class="text"><strong>Thunderbird</strong> email client<br />
[[See our documentation on emailing and reading news with <i>Thunderbird</i>|anonymous_internet/thunderbird]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/keepassxc.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>KeePassXC</strong> password manager<br/>
[[See our documentation on managing passwords with <i>KeePassXC</i>|encryption_and_privacy/manage_passwords]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/pidgin.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Pidgin Internet Messenger</strong><br/>
[[See our documentation on chatting with <i>Pidgin</i> and OTR|anonymous_internet/pidgin]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/files.png link=no alt=""]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Files</strong> browser<br/>
[[See our documentation on the <i>Files</i> browser|introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop#files]]
</div>
</div>

<h2 id="places">Places menu</h2>

The <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu provides direct access to different
folders and storage media.

[[!img places.png link=no alt=""]]

<h2 id="tor-status">Tor status and circuits</h2>

The Tor status icon and *Onion
Circuits* allow you to view the status of Tor.

[[!img tor-status.png link=no alt=""]]

[[See our documentation on *Onion Circuits*.|anonymous_internet/tor/circuits]]

<h2 id="openpgp">OpenPGP applet</h2>

Using the *OpenPGP Applet*, you can
encrypt and decrypt the clipboard using OpenPGP.

[[!img openpgp_applet.png link=no alt=""]]

[[See our documentation on *OpenPGP Applet*.|encryption_and_privacy/gpgapplet]]

<h2 id="accessibility">Universal access</h2>

The universal access menu allows you to activate the screen reader,
screen keyboard, large text display, and other accessibility technologies.

[[!img accessibility.png link=no alt=""]]

[[See our documentation on accessibility.|accessibility]]

<h2 id="keyboard">Keyboard layouts</h2>

The keyboard layout menu allow you to change the keyboard layout and
input method for non-Latin scripts.

[[!img keyboard.png link=no alt=""]]

<h2 id="system">System menu</h2>

In the top-right corner of the top navigation bar, the system menu allows you to
manage your settings, connect to a Wi-Fi network, and restart your computer.

[[!img system.png link=no alt=""]]

<h3 id="networking">Networking</h3>

From the system menu, you can choose which Wi-Fi network to connect to.

See also the documentation on [[connecting to a network|anonymous_internet/networkmanager]].

<h3 id="system-settings">System settings</h3>

Click on the [[!img lib/preferences-system.png alt="Settings" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
button to edit your system settings.

These settings will not be saved when you restart Tails.

<h3 id="screen-locker">Screen locker</h3>

Click on the [[!img lib/network-wireless-encrypted.png alt="Lock Screen" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
button to lock your screen with a password.

- If you set up an [[administration password|first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]]
  when starting Tails, you can unlock your screen with your administration
  password.

  <div class="tip">
  <p>Your screen will automatically lock after some time if you have set up an
  administration password. To disable this behavior, execute the following
  command:</p>

  <p class="pre command">gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver lock-enabled false</p>

  </div>

- Otherwise, you can set up a password to unlock your screen when locking your
  screen for the first time.

  [[!img screen-locker.png alt="" link="no"]]

<h3 id="suspend">Suspend</h3>

Click on the [[!img lib/media-playback-pause.png alt="Suspend" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
button to suspend your computer.

While suspended, your computer is not computing anymore but is still powered on,
like if it was standing still but still alive.

To resume from suspend and go back to the Tails desktop, push the power button
of your computer.

<div class="caution">

<p>If you remove your Tails USB stick while suspended, your computer will not
shut down immediately and will only shut down when resuming.</p>

<p>An attacker with physical access to your computer and capable of finding
your screen locker password or setting up a [[cold-boot
attack|doc/advanced_topics/cold_boot_attacks]] can compromise your Tails while
suspended.</p>

<p>For more security, [[shut down Tails|doc/first_steps/shutdown]] entirely.</p>

</div>

<h3 id="restart">Restart</h3>

Click on the [[!img lib/view-refresh.png alt="Restart" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
button to restart your computer.

<h3 id="shutdown">Shutdown</h3>

Click on the [[!img lib/system-shutdown.png alt="Power Off" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
button to shut down your computer.

<h1 id="activities">Activities overview</h1>

To access your windows and applications you can either:

  - Choose <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guisubmenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guimenuitem">Activities Overview</span></span>.
  - Throw your mouse pointer to the top-left hot corner.
  - Press the windows key on your keyboard.

You can see your windows and applications in the overview. You can also
start typing to search your applications, files, and folders.

<h1 id="shortcuts">Desktop shortcuts</h1>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/tails-help.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Tails documentation</strong> to open an offline version of the Tails website and documentation, embeded in Tails<br/>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img lib/apps/whisperback.png link=no]]
<div class="text">
<strong>Report an error</strong> to report problems about Tails to our team<br/>
[[See our documentation on reporting an error|bug_reporting]]
</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img emptytrash.png link=no]]
<div class="text"><strong>Trash</strong>, where the "deleted" files are
moved</div>
</div>

<!-- XXX: Opting to use #files instead of #nautilus because #files is linked
          to from wiki/src/doc/advanced_topics/internal_hard_disk.mdwn
-->
<h1 id="files">The <span class="application">Files</span> browser</h1>

[[!img nautilus.png link=no]]

To open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser, you can
either:

- Choose <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Files</span></span>.

- Open one of the shortcuts from the <span class="guimenu">Places</span>
  menu.

[[!img lib/apps/files.png link=no alt=""]]

To connect to a remote SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol) server:

1. Choose <span class="guilabel">Other Locations</span> in the sidebar
   of the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Specify an SFTP server in <span class="guilabel">Connect to
   Server</span> at the bottom of the right pane. For example:

   <p class="pre command">ssh://user@example.com/</p>

1. Click <span class="button">Connect</span>.
