[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick, for Linux"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

**Warning!** If at some point you are not sure about a device name it is
recommended to stop proceeding otherwise **you might risk overwriting any hard
drive on the system**. Proceed at your own discretion! We admit that this method
is pretty crude at the moment and we are working on a more intuitive one.

1st method: from an ISO image
=============================

If you [[downloaded|download]] an ISO image (the source), use this method to
create a bootable USB stick (the destination) from it.

### Step 1: Find out the device name of the destination USB stick

The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about the precise device name, do the following.

Unplug the destination USB stick.

Open the Gnome disk utility from the menu *Applications* → *System Tools* →
*Disk Utility*:

[[!img linux/gnome_disk_utility.png link=no alt="Applications → System Tools → Disk Utility"]]

The disk utility will list all the current storage devices on the left side of
the screen:

[[!img linux/storage_devices.png link=no alt="Storage devices, including USB peripherals"]]

Plug back the destination USB stick. A new device should appear in the list of
storage devices. Select it with the cursor:

[[!img linux/destination_device.png link=no alt="A new storage device appeared at the end of the list"]]

Check that the description of the device corresponds to your destination USB
stick, its brand, its size, etc. on the right side of the screen.

[[!img linux/destination_device_description.png link=no alt="Drive description containing: 'Device: /dev/sdc'"]]

On this screenshot, the destination USB stick is a Kingston DataTraveler of 2.0
GB and its device name is `/dev/sdc`. Yours could be different.

### Step 2: Do the copy from the terminal.

Open a terminal from the menu *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` by the path to the ISO
image that you want to copy and `[destination]` by the device name found in step
1.

	cat [tails.iso] > [destination] && sync

If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a "No such
file or directory" error, you can first type `cat`, followed by a space, and
then drag and drop the icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto the
terminal. This should insert the correct path to the ISO image in the terminal.
Then type the rest of the command.

You should get something like this:

    cat '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' > /dev/sdc && sync

### Step 3: Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, generally a few minutes. Be patient…

2nd method: from another running Tails CD or USB
================================================

If you are already able to run Tails from a CD or a USB stick (the source), use
this method to clone it onto another USB stick (the destination).

### Step 1: Boot Tails from the source CD or USB stick.

### Step 2: Find out the device name of the source Tails.

If you're running Tails from a CD the device name should be `/dev/cdrom`.

If you're running Tails from a USB stick, the device name should be something
like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about it's precise device name, do the following.

Open the Gnome disk utility from the menu *Applications* → *System Tools* →
*Disk Utility*:

[[!img linux/gnome_disk_utility.png link=no alt="Applications → System Tools → Disk Utility"]]

Search for your source USB stick in the list of storage devices on the left side
of the screen:

[[!img linux/tails_device.png link=no alt="Storage devices, including USB peripherals"]]

Check that the description of the device corresponds to your source USB stick,
its brand, its size, etc. on the right side of the screen. In the *Volumes* part
you should see that part of it is occupied by Tails.

[[!img linux/tails_device_description.png link=no alt="Drive description containing: 'Device: /dev/sdb'"]]

On this screenshot, the source USB stick is a Kingston DataTraveler of 3.9 GB
and its device name is `/dev/sdb`. Yours could be different.

### Step 3: Find out the device name of the destination USB stick.

The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about it's precise device name, follow the step 1 of the 1st
method.

### Step 4: Copy the source Tails onto the destination USB stick.

Open a terminal from the menu *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing `[source]` by the device name found in
step 2 and `[destination]` by the device name found in step 3.

    cat [source] > [destination] && sync

In the example from the screenshots the command would be:

    cat /dev/sdb > /dev/sdc && sync

### Step 5: Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, generally a few minutes. Be patient…

Troubleshooting
===============

### cat: /dev/sdx: No such file or directory

Then double-check the path to the disk image you entered in step 3.

### cat: /dev/sdc: Permission denied

You might also have committed a mistake in the device names, so please
double-check them. If you're sure about the device names, this could be a
permission problem and you could need to gain root privileges before running the
command in the terminal. That could be:

    sudo su -
    cat [tails.iso] > [destination] && sync

### cat: tails.iso: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake on the path to the ISO image in step 2
of the 2nd method.

