[[!meta title="Start Tails"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Now that you have a Tails device, you can shutdown your computer and start using
Tails without altering your existing operating system.

If Tails starts successfully, the Tails boot menu appears:

[[!img tails_boot_menu.png]]

If you are using a DVD
======================

Put the Tails DVD into the CD/DVD drive and restart the computer. You
should see the Tails boot menu.

If you don't get this menu, you can consult the Ubuntu documentation about
[booting from the CD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD) for more
information, especially the part on the [BIOS
settings](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootFromCD#BIOS%20is%20not%20set%20to%20boot%20from%20CD%20or%20DVD%20drive).

If you are using a USB stick or SD card
=======================================

According to your type of computer, read the instructions for either
[[PC|start_tails#usb-pc]] or [[Mac|start_tails#usb-mac]].

<a id="usb-pc"></a>

## PC

Shutdown the computer, plug your device, and start the computer. You
should see the Tails boot menu.

If your computer does not automatically do so, you might need to edit the BIOS
settings. Restart your computer, and watch for a message telling you which key
to press to enter the BIOS setup. It will usually be one of <span
class="keycap">F1</span>, <span class="keycap">F2</span>, <span
class="keycap">Del</span>, <span class="keycap">Esc</span> or
<span class="keycap">F10</span>. Press this key while your computer is booting to edit your BIOS settings.

If you have problems accessing the BIOS, try to read [pendrivelinux.com: How to
Access BIOS](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/how-to-access-bios/).

1. You need to edit the <span class="guilabel">Boot Order</span>. Depending on your computer you should see an
entry for <span class="guilabel">removable drive</span> or <span class="guilabel">USB media</span>. Move this to the top of the list to
force the computer to attempt to start from your device before starting from the
internal hard disk. Save your changes and continue.

   For more detailed instruction on how to boot from USB you can read [About.com:
How To Boot your Computer from a Bootable USB
Device](http://pcsupport.about.com/od/tipstricks/ht/bootusbflash.htm).

   If changing the boot order is not enough, you can also try the
following BIOS configurations. Try restarting after each change, as
each one might solve your problem.

2. Disable Fast boot and Secure boot.

3. If the computer is configured to start with legacy BIOS, try
   to configure it to start with UEFI. Else, if the computer is
   configured to start with UEFI, try to configure it to start with
   legacy BIOS. Try any of the following options if available:

   - Enable Legacy mode
   - Enable CSM boot
   - Disable UEFI

   You might have to undo these changes to start your usual operating
system again after your Tails session.

4. You can also try to upgrade your BIOS version. Your computer
   vendor probably has instructions on how to do that on their website.

<a id="usb-mac"></a>

## Mac

Shutdown the computer, plug your device, start the computer, and
immediately press-and-hold <span class="keycap">Option</span> until a boot menu
appears. In that boot menu, choose the entry that reads <span class="guimenuitem">Boot EFI</span> and
looks like a USB stick.

Then you should see the Tails boot menu.

If this does not work, then you might need to install
[rEFInd](http://sourceforge.net/projects/refind/).

<div class="caution">

Installing rEFInd replaces your original bootloader.<br/>
This could cause your Mac to not boot. It is recommended to create a full backup and know how to
restore. See <a href="https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1427">Apple's
instructions</a>.

</div>

Problems starting Tails?
========================

Read our specific [[reporting guidelines when Tails does not
start|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/tails_does_not_start]].

Using a virtualization software
===============================

[[See the corresponding documentation.|advanced_topics/virtualization]]
