[[!meta title="Startup options"]]

When starting Tails, you can specify startup options to alter some of its basic
functioning. The two ways of specifying startup options are the following:

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="boot_loader_menu"></a>
<a id="boot_menu"></a> <!-- for backward compatibility -->

Using the <span class="application">Boot Loader Menu</span>
===========================================================

The <span class="application">Boot Loader Menu</span> is the first screen to appear
when Tails starts.

<div class="tip">

<p>The <span class="guilabel">Troubleshooting Mode</span> disables some features of the
Linux kernel and might work better on some computers. You can try this option if you
think you are experiencing errors related to hardware compatibility while
starting Tails.</p>

</div>

1.  To add a boot option, press <span class="keycap">Tab</span> when the
    <span class="application">Boot Loader Menu</span> appears. A list of boot options
    appears at the bottom of the screen.

[[!img boot-menu-with-options.png link=no alt="Black screen with Tails
artwork. Boot Loader Menu with two options 'Tails' and 'Tails (Troubleshooting Mode)'.
At the bottom, a list of options ending with 'vsyscall=none quiet_'"]]

2.  Press <span class="keycap">Space</span>, and type the boot option that you
    want to add.

3.  If you want to add more than one boot option, type them one after the
    other, and separate them by a <span class="keycap">Space</span>.

4.  Then press <span class="keycap">Enter</span> to start Tails.

<a id="greeter"></a>
<a id="tails_greeter"></a>

Using <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>
====================================================

<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>
appears after the <span class="application">Boot Loader Menu</span>, but before the
<span class="application">GNOME Desktop</span>:

[[!img tails-greeter-welcome-to-tails.png link=no alt="Tails Greeter: Welcome to Tails!"]]

You can activate assistive technologies, like a screen reader or large
text, from the universal access menu (the
[[!img lib/preferences-desktop-accessibility.png alt="Universal Access" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
icon which looks like a person) in the top bar.

To start Tails without options, click on the
<span class="button">Start Tails</span> button.

<a id="locale"></a>

Language & region
-----------------

You can configure Tails depending on your language and location from
<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>.

[[!img locale.png link="no" alt="Language & Region section of Tails Greeter"]]

* The <span class="guilabel">Language</span> option allows you to change
  the main language of the interface.

  Text that is not translated yet will appear in English. You can [[help
  to translate more text|contribute/how/translate]].

* The <span class="guilabel">Keyboard Layout</span> option allows you to
  change the layout of the keyboard. For example to switch to an
  *AZERTY* keyboard which is common in France.

  You will still be able to switch between different keyboard layouts from the
  desktop after starting Tails.

  [[!img introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/keyboard.png link="no" alt="Menu in the top-right corner of the desktop to switch between different keyboard layouts"]]

* The <span class="guilabel">Formats</span> option allows you to change
  the date and time format, first day of the week, measurement units,
  and default paper size according to the standards in use in a country.

  For example, the USA and the United Kingdom, two English-speaking countries,
  have different standards:

  <table>
  <tr><th></th><th>USA</th><th>United Kingdom</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Date & time</td><td>3/17/2017 3:56 PM</td><td>17/03/2017 15:56</td></tr>
  <tr><td>First day of the week</td><td>Sunday</td><td>Monday</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Unit system</td><td>Imperial</td><td>Metric</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Paper size</td><td>Letter</td><td>A4</td></tr>
  </table>

  With this option you can also display the calendar in a different language
  than the main language. For example, to display a US calendar, with weeks
  starting on Sunday, when the main language is Russian.

  [[!img US_calendar_in_Russian.png link="no" alt=""]]

<a id="persistence"></a>

Encrypted persistence storage
-----------------------------

If an [[encrypted persistence storage|first_steps/persistence]] is detected on the USB stick, an
additional section appears in <span class="application">Tails
Greeter</span> below the <span class="guilabel">Language & Region</span>
section:

[[!img persistence.png link="no" alt=""]]

<a id="additional"></a>

Additional settings
-------------------

Tails is configured with care to be as safe as possible by default. But,
depending on your situation, you can change one of the following
settings from <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>.

[[!img additional.png link="no" alt="Additional settings of Tails Greeter"]]

- Set an <span class="guilabel">Administration Password</span> to be
  able to perform administrative tasks like installing additional
  software or accessing the internal hard disks of the computer.

  [[See our documentation about the administration password.|administration_password]]

- Disable <span class="guilabel">MAC Address Spoofing</span> to prevent
  connectivity problems with your network interfaces.

  [[See our documentation about MAC address spoofing.|mac_spoofing]]

- Change the <span class="guilabel">Network Configuration</span> to either:

  - Connect directly to the Tor network (default).

  - Configure a Tor bridge or local proxy:

    - If you want to use Tor bridges because your Internet connection is
      censored or you want to hide the fact that you are using Tor.
    - If you need to use a local proxy to access the Internet.

    After starting Tails and connecting to a network, an assistant will
    guide you through the configuration of Tor.

    [[See our documentation about Tor bridges.|bridge_mode]]

  - Disable all networking if you want to work completely offline with
    additional security.

Keyboard shortcuts
------------------

<table>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+L</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Language</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+K</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Keyboard Layout</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+F</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Formats</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+P</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Encrypted Persistent Storage</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+A</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Additional Settings</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+A</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Administration Password</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+M</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">MAC Address Spoofing</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+N</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Network Configuration</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+S</td><td><span class="guilabel">Start Tails</td></tr>
</table>
