[[!meta title="Upgrading a Tails USB stick or SD card"]]

<span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span> notifies you when the
system should be upgraded to a newer version of Tails.

Whenever possible, <span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>
proposes you to upgrade Tails on-the-fly. This only works if the
device, USB stick or SD card, was installed using <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> and there is enough free
memory and storage space available.

Otherwise, <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> allows you
to upgrade a USB stick or SD card to a newer version of Tails.

The following techniques only work if the upgraded device, USB stick
or SD card, was installed using <span class="application">Tails
Installer</span>. **The persistent storage on the device will be
preserved.** There are two methods to do the upgrade:

  - [[Upgrade by cloning from another device|upgrade#clone]] which already
    runs a newer version of Tails
  - [[Upgrade from an ISO image|upgrade#from_iso]] of a newer version of
    Tails

As for the installation, you need to start
<span class="application">Tails Installer</span> from another media than the
device that you want to upgrade.

<a id="clone"></a>

Clone & Upgrade
===============

1. Start Tails from the device, USB stick or SD card, that you want to clone from.

2. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

3. Choose <span class="guilabel">Clone & Upgrade</span>.

4. Plug the device that you want to upgrade.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick or SD card, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose the device from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

6. To start the upgrade, click on the <span class="button">Create Live
   USB</span> button.

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

<a id="from_iso"></a>

Upgrade from ISO
================

1. Start Tails from another media than the device, USB stick or SD card,
   that you want to upgrade.

2. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

3. Choose <span class="guilabel">Upgrade from ISO</span>.

4. Plug the device that you want to upgrade.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick or SD card, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose the device from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

6. Click on the <span class="guilabel">Browse</span> button to specify the
   location of the ISO image.

   If the ISO image is saved on another media, plug it if necessary and click on
   the corresponding device in the <span class="guilabel">Places</span> column.

   <div class="tip">

   If the ISO image is stored in a persistent volume, the corresponding device
   appears first as <span class="emphasis">Encrypted</span>. Click on the device
   and, in the popup window, enter the passphrase to unlock it.

   </div>

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.
