[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB Stick"]]

Tails includes a custom USB installer.

In order to use <span class="application">Tails installer</span>, you need
to start Tails from another media, and clone it onto the USB stick that you want
to install. You can either:

  - **[[Burn a Tails DVD|download#support]]** (recommended).
  - **Use another Tails USB stick**, for example from a friend.
  - **[[Manually install Tails onto another USB
    stick|manual_usb_installation]]**, if you can't use a DVD.

Using <span class="application">Tails installer</span> allows you to
later **[[create a persistent volume|persistence]]** in the free space
left on the USB stick. This requires a USB stick of **at least 2 GB**.

Instructions
============

<div class="caution">
<p><strong>All the content of the destination USB stick will be lost in the operation.</strong></p>
<p><strong>This operation will not clone the persistent volume of the USB stick which is being cloned.</strong></p>
</div>

1. Start Tails from another media than the USB stick
   onto which you want to install Tails.

2. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails installer</span>.

3. To install onto a new USB stick, click on the <span class="button">Clone &
   Install</span> button.

4. Plug the USB stick onto which you want to install Tails.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose the USB stick from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

6. To start the installation, click on the <span class="button">Create Live
USB</span> button.

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

<div class="next">
<p>After the installation completes, you can [[start Tails|/download/#start]]
from this new USB stick.</p>
</div>
