[[!meta title="Welcome Screen"]]

The Welcome Screen
appears after the Boot Loader, but before the
GNOME Desktop.

You can use the Welcome Screen to specify startup options that alter some of the basic
functioning of Tails.

[[!img welcome-screen.png link=no alt="Welcome to Tails!"]]

To start Tails without options, click on the
<span class="button">Start Tails</span> button.

<div class="note">

<p>To store the settings of the Welcome Screen across different Tails sessions,
turn on the [[Welcome Screen|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#welcome_screen]]
feature of the Persistent Storage.</p>

<p>With this feature turned on, unlock your Persistent Storage to
restore your settings in the Welcome Screen.</p>

</div>

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="accessibility"></a>

Assistive technologies
======================

You can activate assistive technologies, like a screen reader or large
text, from the universal access menu (the
[[!img lib/preferences-desktop-accessibility.png alt="Accessibility Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
icon which looks like a person) in the top bar.

<a id="locale"></a>

Language & region
=================

You can configure Tails depending on your language and location from
the Welcome Screen.

[[!img locale.png link="no" alt=""]]

* The <span class="guilabel">Language</span> option allows you to change
  the main language of the interface.

  Text that is not translated yet will appear in English. You can [[help
  to translate more text|contribute/how/translate]].

* The <span class="guilabel">Keyboard Layout</span> option allows you to
  change the layout of the keyboard. For example to switch to an
  *AZERTY* keyboard which is common in France.

  You will still be able to switch between different keyboard layouts from the
  desktop after starting Tails.

  [[!img introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/keyboard.png link="no" alt="Keyboard Menu"]]

* The <span class="guilabel">Formats</span> option allows you to change
  the date and time format, first day of the week, measurement units,
  and default paper size according to the standards in use in a country.

  For example, the USA and the United Kingdom, two English-speaking countries,
  have different standards:

  <table>
  <tr><th></th><th>USA</th><th>United Kingdom</th></tr>
  <tr><td>Date & time</td><td>3/17/2017 3:56 PM</td><td>17/03/2017 15:56</td></tr>
  <tr><td>First day of the week</td><td>Sunday</td><td>Monday</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Unit system</td><td>Imperial</td><td>Metric</td></tr>
  <tr><td>Paper size</td><td>Letter</td><td>A4</td></tr>
  </table>

  With this option you can also display the calendar in a different language
  than the main language. For example, to display a US calendar, with weeks
  starting on Sunday, when the main language is Russian.

  [[!img US_calendar_in_Russian.png link="no" alt=""]]

<a id="persistence"></a>

Persistent Storage
==================

If a [[Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence]] is detected on the USB stick, an
additional section appears in the Welcome Screen
below the **Language & Region**
section:

[[!img persistence.png link="no" alt=""]]

To unlock the Persistent Storage, enter your passphrase and click
**Unlock**.

To create a Persistent Storage, see our instructions on [[creating a
Persistent Storage|first_steps/persistence/configure]]. To learn more about
the Persistent Storage, see our
[[documentation on the Persistent Storage|persistence]].

<a id="additional"></a>

Additional settings
===================

Tails is configured with care to be as safe as possible by default. But,
depending on your situation, you can change one of the following
settings from the Welcome Screen.

[[!img additional.png link="no" alt=""]]

Administration Password
-----------------------

Set an <span class="guilabel">Administration Password</span> to be
able to perform administrative tasks like installing additional
software or accessing the internal hard disks of the computer.

See our documentation about [[the administration password and its
security implications|administration_password]].

MAC Address Spoofing
--------------------

Disable <span class="guilabel">MAC Address Spoofing</span> to prevent
connectivity problems with your network interfaces.

See our documentation about [[MAC address spoofing|mac_spoofing]].

Network Configuration
---------------------

Change the <span class="guilabel">Network Configuration</span> to either:

- Connect directly to the Tor network (default).

- Configure a Tor bridge or local proxy:

  - If you want to use Tor bridges because your Internet connection is
    censored or you want to hide the fact that you are using Tor.
  - If you need to use a local proxy to access the Internet.

  After starting Tails and connecting to a network, an assistant will
  guide you through the configuration of Tor.

  See our documentation about [[Tor bridges|bridge_mode]].

- Disable all networking if you want to work completely offline with
  additional security.

Unsafe Browser
--------------

Enable the ** *Unsafe Browser* ** to log in to a captive portal before starting
Tor.

See our documentation about [[the *Unsafe Browser* and its security
implications|anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser]].

Keyboard shortcuts
==================

<table>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+L</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Language</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+K</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Keyboard Layout</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+F</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Formats</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+P</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Persistent Storage</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+A</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Additional Settings</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+A</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Administration Password</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+M</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">MAC Address Spoofing</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Ctrl+Shift+N</span></td><td><span class="guilabel">Network Configuration</td></tr>
<tr><td><span class="keycap">Alt+S</td><td><span class="guilabel">Start Tails</td></tr>
</table>
