/remove_milestone

Hi!

We've set up an automated process to ask our fellow contributors to update some issues of theirs, in order to:

* better reflect your plans;

* bring down your amount of work-in-progress to a sustainable level;

* encourage team work and increase the chances that someone finishes the work;

* avoid a human doing triaging and asking you the same questions on each such issue.

In particular, this process identifies:

* Stalled work-in-progress

* Reviews waiting for a long time

However, in the current state of things, this process is not able to notice those issues when their milestone has been repeatedly postponed by our Release Managers. Therefore, the issue triaging team decided on tails/sysadmin#16545 to remove the milestone in such cases, when it does not feel realistic. This is what I'm doing on this issue.

You now have a few options, such as:

* Deassign yourself. That's fine. If it really matters, someone else, possibly you, may pick it up later. Then, if this issue is relevant for a Tails team, bring it to their attention; else, forget it and take care of yourself :)

* If you think you can realistically come back to it and finish the work in the next 6 months, say so on this issue, for example by setting a suitable milestone. This will communicate your plans to the rest of the project and ensure the task pops up on your radar at a suitable time. Of course, you can still realize later that it is not going to work as planned, and revisit today's choice.

Cheers!
