[[!meta title="Manually upgrade inside Tails"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="bootstrap" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="install/inc/stylesheets/assistant" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="install/inc/stylesheets/dave" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="install/inc/stylesheets/steps" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="install/inc/stylesheets/upgrade-tails" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta script="install/inc/js/dave"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/tails-installation-assistant.inline" raw="yes"]]

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/os-tails.png link="no"]]</div>

<p class="start">Start in Tails.</p>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/download.inline" raw="yes"]]

Install an intermediary Tails
=============================

In this step, you will install an intermediary Tails by cloning your
outdated Tails on another USB stick using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p>The persistent storage of your Tails USB stick will not be
copied.</p>

</div>

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/plug-upgrade-usb.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Plug the intermediary USB stick in the computer.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Install by cloning</span> button.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/tails_installer_in_tails.png class="screenshot" link="no"]]

   <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-upgrade-usb.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Use the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list to
   specify the intermediary USB stick.

1. To start the installation, click on the <span class="button">Install Tails</span> button.

1. Read the warning message in the confirmation dialog. Click
   on <span class="button">Yes</span> to confirm.

   The installation takes a few minutes.

   <div class="bug">
   <p>The progress bar usually freezes for some time around 95 percent
   while synchronizing data on disk.</p>
   </div>

1. Close <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

Upgrade the intermediary Tails
==============================

In this step, you will upgrade the intermediary Tails using the Tails ISO
image that you downloaded earlier.

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/upgrade-upgrade-usb.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> again.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Upgrade from ISO</span> button.

1. Click <span class="button">Browse</span> and choose the ISO image that you
   downloaded earlier.

1. Choose the intermediary USB stick in the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

1. To start the upgrade, click on the <span class="button">Install Tails</span> button.

1. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

   The upgrade takes a few minutes.

1. Close <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/switch.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_final.inline" raw="yes"]]
