[[!meta title="User interviews"]]

We are collecting here summaries and insights from interviews
with Tails users.

[[!toggle id="howto" text="Display notes on how to interview users"]]

[[!toggleable id="howto" text="""

In their shortest form, these can be
[intercept Interviews](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/framework-elements/intercept-interviews/)
that are designed to increase understanding and dialogue through a series of
quick questions that take no more than 10 to 15 minutes of dialogue.

The email address of the interviewees are stored in the internal Git
repo: `contacts/ux_interviews.mdwn`.

The names of the interviewees are changed but loosely related in terms
of gender, language, and age.

Intercept interview script
--------------------------

- Introduction
  - Who I am, what I am doing, and why I'm conducting the interview.

- Getting the interviewee's consent:
  - You can answer my questions to the extend that you feel comfortable
    and stop at any moment.
  - We want to keep this information publicly available for contributors
    of the project but in generic terms, removing personally
    identifiable information.

- The user
  - Who are you? What do you do?

- Tails & you:
  - How did you come to be interested in Tails and get started?
  - What is your level of expertise with Tails?
  - What do you use it for? How often?

- Pros & cons:
  - What are the three things that you like the most in Tails?
  - What are the three things that you dislike the most in Tails?

- Good bye:
  - Thank you!
  - Would you give us your email if you want to keep in touch for future
    questions or go deeper? Emails are stored encrypted and only
    accessible to the core contributors.
  - Do you know of anybody else using Tails and that would be worth
    interviewing?

Resources on interviewing users
-------------------------------

- [Steve Portigal, _Interviewing Users_](http://gen.lib.rus.ec/search.php?req=steve+portigal+interviewing+users)

- [Parlatype](https://gkarsay.github.io/parlatype/), a minimal audio
  player for manual speech transcription.

Tips when taking notes
----------------------

- Whenever possible, try to transcribe the language, mental model, and
  understanding of the interviewee. The interviewee might use a
  different word than what we usual use (for example, "permanent"
  instead of "persistent") or think that something is not possible in
  Tails while it is. Don't correct them during the interview (you can
  clarify things that could be helpful for them at the very end) and
  transcribe this in your summary.

Template email for validating the output
----------------------------------------

<pre>
Thank you so much for taking some time to answer my questions about
Tails the other day!

I'm sending you here what I plan to store in our public working
documents on our website. Please correct me if I misunderstood
something or if you want me to remove some bits.
</pre>

"""]]

List of interviews
==================

<a id="roberto"></a>

Roberto, October 2019
---------------------

Roberto is a journalist and works for an organization that does investigative
journalism. I'm in charge of being the first filter for the information that
arrives on *Leaks*, which is an alliance of news rooms across the country.

[[Read the interview with Roberto|interviews/roberto]]

<hr>

<a id="bea"></a>

Bea, August 2018
----------------

Bea is from North America but lives in Latin America where she does
political work as a volunteer in a grassroots organization.

[[Read the interview with Bea|interviews/bea]]

<hr>

<a id="claudia"></a>

Claudia and Felix, January 2018
-------------------------------

Claudia and Felix are reporters working in a journalists organization in
Latin America. They investigate and report on issues such as
human-rights violations, enforced disappearances, drug trafficking but
always with a focus on the social impacts.

[[Read the interview with Claudia and Felix|interviews/claudia_felix]]

<hr>

<a id="joana"></a>

Joana and Orlando, January 2018
-------------------------------

Joana and Orlando are investigative journalists and human-rights
defenders in Latin America. They work in an organization that
investigates and reports on private companies in Latin America, fighting
for transparency and accountability and denouncing human-right
violations of these companies, especially towards local communities.

[[Read the interview with Joana and Orlando|interviews/joana_orlando]]

<hr>

<a id="mathias"></a>

Mathias, December 2017
----------------------

Mathias is a 25 years old video technician living in the north of france. He is also a punk hardcore singer, and is involved in several struggles
against the capitalist world.

[[Read the interview with Mathias|interviews/mathias]]

<hr>

<a id="daan"></a>

Daan, December 2017
-------------------

Daan is a 18 years old ICT (information and communications technology)
student and a security researcher. He lives in the Netherlands and
cares a lot about privacy.

[[Read the interview with Daan|interviews/daan]]

<hr>

<a id="charles"></a>

Charles, December 2017
----------------------

Charles is 30 years old and lives in North America. He is a political
activist working on law reform at the state level. He cares about free
software and calls himself a "purist". He is part of an organization
that provides computers and cell phones with free software
(*libreboot*, *Replicant*) to people.

[[Read the interview with Charles|interviews/charles]]

<hr>

<a id="miguel"></a>

Miguel, May 2017
----------------

Miguel is a 20 years old statistics student in Brazil. He is part of
a collective that works on online privacy and security.

[[Read the interview with Miguel|interviews/miguel]]

<hr>

<a id="sophia"></a>

Sophia, May 2017
----------------

Sophia is 30 years old, lives in Brazil and has two jobs: she is
a teacher and a system administrator.

[[Read the interview with Sophia|interviews/sophia]]

<hr>

<a id="isabella"></a>

Isabella, May 2017
------------------

Isabella is a 50 years old Debian user living in Brazil. She used to
be a journalist at a magazine that talked a lot about FOSS (among
other things), then got in touch with people working on privacy
enhancing technologies (PET) and switched jobs: she now works with
a collective that defends freedom and privacy online, learns about
privacy tools and does advocacy for them.

[[Read the interview with Isabella|interviews/isabella]]

<hr>

<a id="bernardo"></a>

Bernardo, May 2017
------------------

Bernardo is a 37 years old public administration teacher and social
science researcher in Brazil. He studies the way social movements use
Internet communication tools. He discovered Tails after the Snowden
leaks, via a hackers collective and the homepage of the Tor website.

[[Read the interview with Bernardo|interviews/bernardo]]

<hr>

<a id="pedro"></a>

Pedro, May 2017
---------------

Pedro is 23 years old and studies applied mathematics in college in
Brazil. He has been a Linux user since 11 years; Qubes OS is now his
main operating system.

[[Read the interview with Pedro|interviews/pedro]]

<hr>

<a id="margarita"></a>

Margarita, March 2017
---------------------

Margarita is a digital security consultant in Latin America. She used to
develop autonomous communication infrastructures and is now focusing on
training human-right defenders and organizations in digital security.
She has been presenting Tails mostly to two different public:

[[Read the interview with Margarita|interviews/margarita]]

<hr>

<a id="helen"></a>

Helen, March 2017
-----------------

Helen is a digital security trainer working in an organization defending
the right for free speech in North America and working with both large
news organizations and freelance journalists.

[[Read the interview with Helen|interviews/helen]]

<hr>

<a id="ernesto"></a>

Ernesto, March 2017
-------------------

Ernesto is working in the social science department of a University in
Latin America where he does communication, web development, and video.
He is also active in a local hacklab where he has a community TV and
does video editing with free software.

[[Read the interview with Ernesto|interviews/Ernesto]]

<hr>

<a id="ray"></a>

Ray, March 2017
---------------

Ray is a security consultant and trainer in Africa.

[[Read the interview with Ray|interviews/ray]]

<hr>

<a id="adam"></a>

Adam, March 2017
----------------

Adam is an investigative journalist working in an organization raising
awareness around State surveillance and digital freedom in Western
Europe. He has been using lots of Tor in different environments for
years.

[[Read the interview with Adam|interviews/adam]]

<hr>

<a id="alex"></a>

Alex, March 2017
----------------

Alex is a journalist working for a big news room in Western Europe.

[[Read the interview with Alex|interviews/alex]]

<hr>

<a id="jeanne"></a>

Jeanne, February 2017
---------------------

Jeanne has been working as an independent journalist for 5-6 years in Western Europe. She
writes stories that she sells to many different newspapers. She is also
active in a not-for-profit resource center and coworking space for
independent journalists in her city where she advocates for privacy to
the local press. She runs Ubuntu on her PC and can handle it all-right
with some help from her geek friends.

[[Read the interview with Jeanne|interviews/jeanne]]
