[[!meta title="Recording usability testing"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="camera"></a>

Recording with a camera using <span class="application">VLC</span>
==================================================================

Recording the screen with an external camera has the following
advantages over recording with a screencast:

- Recording a whole session, even if the user restarts Tails.
- Saving the video directly to your computer and not relying on the
  computer used for the tests.

You can use a document camera. The [Ziggi-HD Plus by
IPEVO](https://www.ipevo.com/) works fine from Tails.

1. Move the <span class="guilabel">AF</span> switch of the camera to <span class="guilabel">C</span> to have continuous autofocus.

1. Install <span class="application">VLC</span>:

   <p class="pre command">apt install vlc</p>

### Prepare the camera for recording

1. In <span class="application">VLC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Media</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Open Capture Device...</span></span>.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Capture Device</span> tab, select:

   - <span class="guilabel">Video device name</span>: /dev/video1
   - <span class="guilabel">Audio device name</span>: hw:1,0

1. Click the <span class="button">Play</span> button.

1. Make sure that the microphone of the camera is captured as well.

1. Adjust the orientation of the camera to capture as much of the screen as
   possible while not obfuscating the light of sight of the participant.

### Start recording

1. In <span class="application">VLC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Media</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Convert / Save...</span></span>.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Capture Device</span> tab, select:

   - <span class="guilabel">Video device name</span>: /dev/video1
   - <span class="guilabel">Audio device name</span>: hw:1,0

1. Click the <span class="button">Convert / Save</span> button.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Convert</span> dialog:

   - Select the
     <span class="guilabel">Video - H.264 + MP3 (MP4)</span> profile.

   - Specify a destination file under
     <span class="filename">~/Persistent/</span>.

<a id="screencast"></a>

Recording a screencast
======================

Recording the screen with a screencast has the following advantages over
recording with an external camera:

- Better image quality
- Lighter setup

Using <span class="application">Kazam</span>
--------------------------------------------

You can use [*Kazam*](http://recordmydesktop.sourceforge.net/) from Tails:

1. Install *Kazam*:

   <p class="pre command">apt install kazam</span>

1. Start *Kazam* and edit the *Kazam* preferences:

   - In the **General** tab:

     - Adjust the capture microphone

   - In the **Screencast** tag:

     - Lower the framerate to 10 to avoid data loss.

     - Change the file format to WEBM.

     - Enable **Automatic file saving**.

     <div class="bug">
     <p>The directory preferences is reset to <em>~/Videos</em> every time by <em>Kazam</em>.</p>
     </div>

### To autosave the recordings in persistence

1. Create a *Persistent/Videos* directory.

1. Then, either:

   - Temporarily, mount the *Videos* directory on *Persistent/Videos*.

     To do so, execute the following command:

     <p class="pre command">sudo mount --bind ~/Persistent/Videos ~/Videos</p>

   - Permanently, map the *Videos* directory to *Persistent/Videos* in your
     persistence settings.

     To do so, add the following line to your */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/persistence.conf*:

     <p class="pre">/home/amnesia/Videos        source=Persistent/Videos</p>

Using GNOME Shell
-----------------

Press <span class="keycap">Ctrl+Alt+Shift+R</span> in GNOME to start or stop
capturing a screencast.

The video is saved to <span class="filename">~/Videos/</span>.

<div class="bug">

<p>The screencast stops after 30 seconds. See [[!tails_ticket
12723]].</p>

<p>The screencast has no sound.</p>

</div>
