[[!meta title="Documentation guidelines"]]

This page contains guidelines and resources for writing documentation
for Tails. Most of these rules can also be applied when writing
graphical user interfaces. Doing so helps creating a consistent language
across GUI and documentation.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Follow the GNOME Documentation Style Guide
==========================================

The GNOME Documentation Style Guide (GDSG) provides guidelines for
authors who want to contribute to the GNOME Documentation Project (GDP).
Try to follow those guidelines when writing documentation and GUI for
Tails.

  - [GNOME Documentation Style Guide](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/),
  - [GNOME Documentation Style Guide, single HTML
    file](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html)

**Read at least [Section 1 ― Fundamental Concepts of Technical
Documentation](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#fundamentals).**

The following sections are also of particular interest or have been
debated within Tails before:

  - [4.&nbsp;Writing documentation for an International
    Audience](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#locale)
    includes specific rules about how to write documentation that is
    easier to translate, with practical examples.
  - [5.2.&nbsp;Checks You Can Do
    Yourself](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#improving-6)
    lists the top ten topics that you need to watch out for when you
    review your work.
  - [A.&nbsp;Recommended
    Terminology](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#wordlist)
    contains a glossary of terms for use when writing documentation.

Use title capitalization rules from Wikipedia
=============================================

Do not use the capitalization rules for headings from the GDSG. Use
instead the sentence-style [capitalization rules from
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Naming_conventions_%28capitalization%29).
In short, **do not capitalize the second or subsequent words in an
article title, unless the title is a proper noun**. Sentence-style
capitalization looks less formal and is also easier for the worldwide
audience to read.

But use title capitalization, as described in GDSG section
[3.&nbsp;Grammar and Usage
Guidelines](http://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#grammar)
for the names of GUI items: buttons, dialogs, applications, menus, etc.

CSS formating for GUI documentation
===================================

Use the equivalent of DocBook tags
to style your documentation using CSS. 

  - <span class="code">span.application</span> for application names, for example:
    - Code: `<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>`
    - Result: <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>
  - <span class="code">span.button</span>  for button names, for example:
    - Code: `the <span class="button">Login</span> button`
    - Result: the <span class="button">Login</span> button
  - <span class="code">span.code</span>  for code excerpts, for example: 
    - Code: `<span class="code">id="tails-greeter"</span>`
    - Result: <span class="code">id="tails-greeter"</span>
  - <span class="code">span.command</span>  for command names
    - Code: `the <span class="command">apt</span> command`
    - Result: the <span class="command">apt</span> command
  - <span class="code">span.filename</span>  for file names, for example:
    - Code: `the <span class="filename">~/.gnupg/gpg.conf</span> file`
    - Result: the <span class="filename">~/.gnupg/gpg.conf</span> file
  - <span class="code">span.guilabel</span> for GUI label, for example:
    - Code: `<span class="guilabel">Enter passphrase</span>`
    - Result: <span class="guilabel">Enter passphrase</span>
  - <span class="code">span.menuchoice</span>, <span class="code">span.guimenu</span>, <span class="code">span.guisubmenu</span>, <span class="code">span.guimenuitem</span> for menu
    and menu items, for example:
    - Code:<br/>
      `<span class="menuchoice">
        <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
        <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
        <span class="guimenuitem">Configure persistent storage</span>
      </span>`
    - Result: <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
        <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
	  <span class="guimenuitem">Configure persistent
	  storage</span></span>
  - <span class="code">span.keycap</span> for 
    - Code: `the <span class="keycap">Tab</span> key`
    - Result: the <span class="keycap">Tab</span> key
  - <span class="code">span.replaceable</span>
    - Code: `<span class="command">select disk=<span class="replaceable">number</span></span>`
    - Result: <span class="command">select disk=<span class="replaceable">number</span></span>

Tips, notes, cautions, bugs, and next
=====================================

Use tips, notes, and cautions to highlight important information, as
described in the GNOME Documentation Style Guide.

<https://developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/infodesign-18.html.en>

Bugs
----

Provides information about important bugs that affect the software which
is described in its principal use cases. For example:

<div class="bug">

<p>The screen reading functionality of <span class="application">GNOME
Orca</span> does not work neither with the <span
class="application">Tor Browser</span> nor with the <span
class="application">Unsafe Web Browser</span>.</p>

</div>

Next
----

Provides links to other related sections of the documentation that might
be interesting to read next. For example:

<div class="next">

<p>You can also
[[decrypt or verify a text that is encrypted or signed using public-key cryptography|doc/encryption_and_privacy/gpgapplet/decrypt_verify]]
using <span class="application">OpenPGP Applet</span>.</p>

</div>

<a id="screenshot"></a>

Screenshots
===========

We limit the number of screenshots in the documentation to the minimum.
The GNOME Documentation Style Guide explains very well the
[disadvantages of screenshots](https//developer.gnome.org/gdp-style-guide/2.32/gdp-style-guide.html#infodesign-10).

When using screenshots of full windows, we include the window decoration
and a border of blue background to clarify the context and the nature of
the image. To take such a screenshot:

1. In *Gimp* choose **File**&nbsp;▸ **Create**&nbsp;▸ **Screenshot&hellip;**).
2. Select **Include windows decoration**.
3. Make sure the blue border (`0x204a87`) on each side of the screenshot is at least 18px.

We also most of the time resize the screenshots to 66%, either when they are
too big or when they can be confused for the actual application (see
[[!tails_ticket 11527]]). Use the *Sinc (Lanczos3)* interpolation in *GIMP*.

We always compress screenshots using [[compress-image|documentation#image-compress]].

Good:

[[!img screenshot-blue.png link="no"]]

Bad:

[[!img screenshot-transparent.png link="no"]]

[[!img screenshot-cut.png link="no"]]

<a id="alt"></a>

`alt` attributes for images
===========================

The `alt` attribute of an image is, for example, read by screen readers
in place of images allowing the *content* and *function* of the image to
be accessible to those with visual or certain cognitive disabilities.

Every image must have an `alt` attribute but it can be empty (`alt=""`).

In the case of our documentation:

- Often screenshots require no additional information to clarify their
  *content*. They often provide visual context that is useful for people
  who see them but not necessary to people who don't see them.

- For graphical buttons or icons, use as `alt` attribute the text that
  is read by the GNOME Screen Reader (or that you think should be read
  if none is read). For example:

  <pre>1. Click on the &lt;span class="guimenu"&gt;
  \[[!img lib/unlock.png alt="Unlock" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
  &lt;/span&gt; button.</pre>

For more guidelines and examples about writing good `alt` attributes,
read the article on [alternative text by
WebAIM](https://webaim.org/techniques/alttext/).

Ikiwiki shortcuts
=================

The `\[[!wikipedia ..]]` strings you can find in some files are ikiwiki [[shortcuts]].
You might also need to understand [[ikiwiki directives|ikiwiki/directive]].

Wrap to 80 characters but only when needed
==========================================

New documentation should be wrapped to 80 characters. However, please do
not submit patches that merely re-wrap existing text, as this makes it
harder to read the Git history.

Related online resources
========================

- Jakob Nielsen's
  [How Users Read on the Web](http://www.nngroup.com/articles/how-users-read-on-the-web/)
  and [Be Succinct - Writing for the Web](http://www.nngroup.com/articles/be-succinct-writing-for-the-web/).
  However do not use bold for scanning in instruction steps. Steps
  should be short enough and bold mixes up with other GUI formatting.

- [Wikipedia.org](https://en.wikipedia.org/),
  [Webopedia.com](http://www.webopedia.com),
  [Whatis.com](http://whatis.com) can be used as terminology websites
  for technical terms.

- [Wikipedia Manual of Style](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Manual_of_Style)
  is another useful resource on writing, typography, punctuation, etc.
