[[!meta title="Decrypt or verify a text created using OpenPGP"]]

Tails includes a custom applet to **decrypt text that is encrypted using
OpenPGP** or **verify text that is signed using OpenPGP**.

1. Select with the mouse the encrypted text that you want to decrypt, or the
signed text that you want to verify. To copy it into the clipboard, right-click
on the selected text, and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Copy</span> from the
menu.

   [[!img browser_copy.png link=no alt="Selected encrypted text
   starting with -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----"]]

2. If the text that you selected is encrypted, the icon of <span
class="application">Tails gpgApplet</span> now shows a padlock, meaning that
the clipboard contains encrypted text.

   [[!img gpgapplet_with_padlock.png link=no alt="Tails gpgApplet with a
   padlock"]]

   If the text that you selected is only signed, but not encrypted, the icon of
   <span class="application">Tails gpgApplet</span> now shows a seal, meaning
   that the clipboard contains signed text.

   [[!img gpgapplet_with_seal.png link=no alt="Tails gpgApplet with a seal"]]

3. Click on <span class="application">Tails gpgApplet</span>, and select <span
class="guimenuitem">Decrypt/Verify Clipboard</span> from the menu.

4. If the text that you selected is encrypted with a passphrase, the <span
class="guilabel">Enter passphrase</span> dialog box appears. Enter the
passphrase that has been used to encrypt the text, and click the <span
class="guilabel">OK</span> button.

   If the text that you selected is encrypted using public-key encryption, two
   different dialog boxes can appear.

   a. If the passphrase for the corresponding private key is not already cached
   in memory, a dialog box appears with the following message: <span
   class="guilabel">You need a passphrase to unlock the secret key for
   user</span>. Enter the passphrase for this private key, and click the <span
   class="guilabel">OK</span> button.

   b. If the passphrase for the corresponding private key is already cached in
   memory, a dialog box appears with the following message: <span
   class="guilabel">The passphrase is cached in memory</span>. Click on the
   <span class="guilabel">Authorize</span> to use the passphrase cached in
   memory.

   If the text that you selected is only signed, the window described in step 5
   appears directly.

5. If the passphrase provided in step 4 is incorrect, a <span
class="guilabel">GnuPG error</span> message appears that mentions <span
class="guilabel">decryption failed: bad key</span>.

   If the signature of the text is invalid, a <span class="guilabel">GnuPG
   error</span> message appears that mentions <span class="guilabel">BAD
   signature from…</span>.

6. If the passphrase provided in step 4 is correct, and if the signature of the
text is valid, a <span class="guilabel">GnuPG results</span> window appears.

   The decrypted text appears in the <span class="guilabel">Output of GnuPG</span> text box.

   The messages in the <span class="guilabel">Other messages provided by
   GnuPG</span> text box can include:

   a. The message <span class="guilabel">Good signature from…</span>, which
   confirms that the signature of the text is valid.

   b. The warning <span class="guilabel">message was not integrity
   protected</span>, which always appears when using passphrase encryption.
