[[!meta title="Manage passwords with KeePassXC"]]

Using the [<span class="application">KeePassXC</span>](https://keepassxc.org/)
password manager you can:

  - Store many passwords in an encrypted database which is protected by
    a single passphrase of your choice.
  - Always use different and stronger passwords, since you only have to
    remember a single passphrase to unlock the entire database.
  - Generate very strong random passwords.

[[!toc]]

<a id="create"></a>

Create and save a password database
===================================

Follow these steps to create a new password database and save it in the
persistent volume for use in future working sessions.

To learn how to create and configure the persistent volume, read the
[[documentation on persistence|first_steps/persistence]].

0. When starting Tails, [[enable the persistent volume|first_steps/persistence/use]].

0. In the [[<span class="application">Persistent Volume
   Assistant</span>|first_steps/persistence/configure]], verify that the
   [[<span class="guilabel">Personal Data</span>
   persistence feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#personal_data]] is activated. If it is deactivated, activate it, restart Tails,
   and [[enable the persistent volume|first_steps/persistence/use]].

0. To start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassXC</span></span>.

0. To create a new database, click <span class="guilabel">Create new database</span>.

0. Save the database as *keepassx.kdbx* in the *Persistent* folder.

0. The database is encrypted and protected by
   a passphrase.
   * Specify a passphrase of your choice in the <span
     class="guilabel">Enter password</span> text box.
   * Type the same passphrase again in the <span class="guilabel">Repeat
     password</span> text box.
   * Click <span class="guilabel">OK</span>.


<a id="restore"></a>

Restore and unlock the password database
========================================

Follow these steps to unlock the password database saved in the
persistent volume from a previous working session.

0. When starting Tails, [[enable the persistent volume|first_steps/persistence/use]].

0. To start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassXC</span></span>.

0. If you have a database named *keepassx.kdbx* in your *Persistent* folder,
   <span class="application">KeePassXC</span> automatically displays a dialog to
   unlock that database.

   Enter the passphrase for this database and click <span class="guilabel">OK</span>.

0. If you enter an invalid passphrase the following error message
   appears:

   <span class="guilabel">Unable to open the database.<br/>
   Wrong key or database file is corrupt.</span>

<div class="tip">

<p>In addition to the <em>password database</em>, you can store your <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>
<em>settings</em>
using the [[<span class="guilabel">Dotfiles</span> persistence
feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#dotfiles]]. To do so, create the folder
<code>/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config/keepassxc/</code>
and copy the file <code>~/.config/keepassxc/keepassxc.ini</code> to it.</p>

</div>

<a id="kbdx4"></a>

Update the cryptographic parameters of your password database
=============================================================

KeePassXC, included in Tails 4.0 and later, supports the [KBDX 4 file
format](https://keepass.info/help/kb/kdbx_4.html). The KBDX 4 file format
uses stronger cryptographic parameters than previous file formats. The
parameters of previous file formats are still secure.

To update your database to the latest cryptographic parameters:

0. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Database</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Database settings</span></span>.

0. In the <span class="guilabel">Encryption</span> tab, change the
   following parameters:

   * Set <span class="guilabel">Encryption Algorithm</span> to
     *ChaCha20*.
   * Set <span class="guilabel">Key Derivation Function</span> to
     *Argon2*.

0. Click <span class="button">OK</span>.

<a id="migration"></a>

Migrating a password database from Tails 2.12 and earlier
=========================================================

The database format of <span class="application">KeePass</span> 1
(Tails 2.12 and earlier) is incompatible with the database format of
<span class="application">KeePassXC</span> (Tails 4.0 and later).

To migrate your database to the new format:

0. Start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>.

0. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Database</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenu">Import</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Import KeePass 1 database</span></span>.

0. Select your database, for example
   <span class="filename">keepassx.kdb</span>.

0. After your database is open, save it to the new format:

   * Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Database</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Save database</span></span>.
   * Save the database as *keepassx.kdbx* in the *Persistent* folder.

   Note that only the file extension is different:

   * *kdb* for the old format.
   * *kdbx* for the new format.

0. This operation does not delete your old database from your
   *Persistent* folder.

   You can now delete your old database or keep it as a backup.

<a id="user_guide"></a>

Additional documentation
========================

For more detailed instructions on how to use
<span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, refer to the
[<span class="application">KeePassXC</span> guide
of the Electronic Frontier Foundation](https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-keepassxc).
