[[!meta title="OpenPGP with gedit"]]

**It is unsafe to write confidential text in a web browser** since Javascript
attacks can access it from inside the browser. You should rather write your
text in a separate application, encrypt it with gedit and then paste the
encrypted text in your browser, before sending it by email for example.

This technique requires you to use public-key encryption and to have the secret
key for which the message was encrypted. If you never used OpenPGP keys before,
you might rather want to encrypt your messages using a passphrase with OpenPGP
passphrase encryption. [[See the corresponding
documentation.|openpgp_passphrase_encryption]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Encrypt text using public-key encryption
========================================

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Write your message in the text editor</h2>

Open gedit from the menu **Application** → **Accessories** → **gedit Text
Editor**.

[[!img gedit.png link=no alt="gedit Text Editor"]]

Write your text.

[[!img gedit_confidential_message.png link=no alt="Confidential message written in gedit"]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Encrypt it using gedit</h2>

**Select it** with the mouse. Choose from the menu **Edit** → **Encrypt...**.

[[!img gedit_encrypt.png link=no alt="Edit → Encrypt"]]

You will be prompted with a window to choose the recipient of the message. In
this example we will encrypt this message to send it to email of Tails
developers.

**Select the corresponding key**. Click **Ok**.

[[!img choose_recipient_keys.png link=no alt="Select Tails developers"]]

The confidential message should be replaced by its encrypted version.

[[!img gedit_encrypted_text.png link=no alt="Encryted text in gedit"]]

You can now copy and paste this encrypted message to include it in an email for
example.

Decrypt encrypted text
======================

To decrypt an encrypted text you can do the reverse operation.

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Copy the encrypted text into the clipboard</h2>

**Select the encrypted text** that you want to decrypt with the mouse. Copy it
into the clipboard by doing **right-click** → **Copy**.

[[!img browser_encrypted_text.png link=no alt="Selected BEGIN PGP MESSAGE"]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Decrypt it using gedit</h2>

Open gedit from the menu **Application** → **Accessories** → **gedit Text
Editor**.

[[!img gedit.png link=no alt="gedit Text Editor"]]

**Paste the encrypted message** into gedit. **Select it** with the mouse.
Choose from the menu **Edit** → **Decrypt/Verify**.

[[!img gedit_decrypt_verify.png link=no alt="Edit → Decrypt/Verify in gedit"]]

You will be prompted for the passphrase of the secret key for which the message has been encrypted.

[[!img enter_passphrase.png link=no alt="Enter passphrase for 'foobar &lt;foobar@example.com&gt;'"]]

The encrypted message should be replaced by its decrypted version.

[[!img gedit_confidential_message.png link=no alt="Decrypted message in gedit"]]
