[[!meta title="Updating your OpenPGP keyserver configuration"]]

# About keys.openpgp.org

OpenPGP keyservers are public repositories of OpenPGP public keys that
applications use to discover the public keys of contacts.

In Tails 4.1 (December 2019), we changed the default GnuPG configuration
to use <https://keys.openpgp.org/>, also available on
<http://zkaan2xfbuxia2wpf7ofnkbz6r5zdbbvxbunvp5g2iebopbfc4iqmbad.onion/>,
as the default OpenPGP keyserver.

  - keys.openpgp.org is more trustworthy than other OpenPGP public
    keyservers because it only references an OpenPGP public key after
    sending a confirmation email to each email addresses listed in the
    key.

  - keys.openpgp.org does not distribute third-party signatures, which
    are the signatures on a key that were made by some other key.
    Third-party signatures are the signatures used to create the OpenPGP
    Web of Trust.

  - keys.openpgp.org prevents [OpenPGP certificate
    flooding attacks](https://dkg.fifthhorseman.net/blog/openpgp-certificate-flooding.html),
    which can make your OpenPGP keyring unusable and crash your
    computer.

  To learn more about keys.openpgp.org, read their
  [About](https://keys.openpgp.org/about) and
  [FAQ](https://keys.openpgp.org/about/faq) pages.

# Updating your Tails to use keys.openpgp.org

If you have GnuPG keys stored in Persistence since before Tails 4.1, you
should update your keyserver configuration.

Tails was previously configured to use the SKS keyserver network, which
has been subject to [OpenPGP certificate flooding
attacks](https://dkg.fifthhorseman.net/blog/openpgp-certificate-flooding.html)
since June 2019.

Downloading a public key that has been flooded can corrupt your GnuPG
keyring, make your keyring extremely slow to operate, and possibly overheat and
crash your computer. Only a few keys in the SKS keyserver network have
been flooded. Downloading a flooded public key does not compromise the
security of your private keys.

To update your keyserver configuration:

1. Open the *Text Editor*.

1. Click **Open** and choose **Other Documents...**.

1. Navigate to the *Home* folder.

1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the list of files in
   the right pane and choose **Show Hidden Files**.

1. Open the *.gnupg* folder.

1. Edit the *gpg.conf* file in the *.gnupg* folder.

   Replace its content with the content of our default *gpg.conf* file:

   <https://git.tails.boum.org/tails/plain/config/chroot_local-includes/etc/skel/.gnupg/gpg.conf>

1. Edit the *dirmngr.conf* file in the *.gnupg* folder.

   Replace its content with the content of our default *dirmngr.conf* file:

   <https://git.tails.boum.org/tails/plain/config/chroot_local-includes/etc/skel/.gnupg/dirmngr.conf>

1. Save both files and close the *Text Editor*.

If you also have encrypted emails stored in the *Thunderbird*
Persistence feature:

1. Open *Thunderbird*.

1. In *Thunderbird*, choose <span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Enigmail</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Preferences</span></span>.

1. In the **Enigmail Preferences** dialog, click the **Display Expert
  Settings and Menus**.
  
   Additional tabs appear on top of the dialog.

1. Open the **Keyserver** tab.

1. Specify the following keyserver addresses in the **Specify your keyserver(s)** field:

   <p class="pre">vks://keys.openpgp.org, hkps://hkps.pool.sks-keyservers.net, hkps://pgp.mit.edu</p>

1. Click **Ok**.

   An information dialog appears that starts with *Cannot connect to
   gpg-agent*.

   Click **Ok** again to dismiss it.

1. Close the **Enigmail Preferences** dialog.
