[[!meta title="OpenPGP passphrase encryption"]]

Tails proposes you a custom applet to **encrypt text with a passphrase** using
OpenPGP passphrase encryption.

**It is unsafe to write confidential text in a web browser** since Javascript
attacks can access it from inside the browser. You should rather write your
text in a separate application, encrypt it with gpgApplet and then paste the
encrypted text in your browser, before sending it by email for example.

This technique requires you to share a secret passphrase with the people that
will need to decrypt the message. OpenPGP also allows you to use public-key
cryptography to send confidential messages without having a shared passphrase.
[[See the corresponding documentation.|openpgp_with_gedit]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Encrypt text with a passphrase
==============================

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Write your message in the text editor</h2>

Open gedit from the menu **Applications** → **Accessories** → **gedit Text
Editor**.

[[!img gedit.png link=no alt="gedit Text Editor"]]

Write your text.

[[!img gedit_confidential_message.png link=no alt="Confidential message in gedit"]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Encrypt it with a passphrase using gpgApplet</h2>

**Select it** with the mouse. Copy it into the clipboard by doing
**right-click** → **Copy**.

[[!img copy.png link=no alt="Right-click → Copy"]]

**The logo of the gpgApplet should represent lines of text**, meaning that the
clipboard contains non-encrypted text:

[[!img gpgapplet_with_text.png link=no alt="gpgApplet without a lock"]]

Click on the applet and select **Encrypt Clipboard** from the menu.

[[!img encrypt_clipboard.png link=no alt="Encrypt Clipboard"]]

The applet will prompt you with a passphrase twice.

[[!img enter_passphrase.png link=no alt="Enter passphrase"]]

**The logo of the gpgApplet should now show a lock**, meaning that the
clipboard contains encrypted text:

[[!img gpgapplet_with_lock.png link=no alt="gpgApplet with a lock"]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-three">Paste your encrypted text</h2>

Now paste this encrypted text in another application by doing **right-click**
→ **Paste**. For example, paste it in the web browser in order to send it by
email.

[[!img browser_paste.png link=no alt="Right-click → Paste"]]

[[!img browser_encrypted_text.png link=no alt="Right-click → Paste"]]

Decrypt encrypted text
======================

To decrypt an encrypted text you can do the reverse operation.

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Copy the encrypted text into the clipboard</h2>

**Select the encrypted text that you want to decrypt** with the mouse. Copy it
into the clipboard by doing **right-click** → **Copy**.

[[!img browser_received_email.png link=no alt="Selected BEGIN PGP MESSAGE"]]

**The logo of the gpgApplet should show a lock**, meaning that the clipboard
contains encrypted text:

[[!img gpgapplet_with_lock.png link=no alt="gpgApplet with a lock"]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Decrypt it using gpgApplet</h2>

Click on the gpgApplet and select **Decrypt/Verify** from the menu.

[[!img decrypt_verify.png link=no alt="Decrypt/Verify"]]

The applet should prompt you with a decrypted version of the text.

[[!img gpgapplet_decrypted_text.png link=no alt="Decrypted text in a popup window"]]
