[[!meta title="Removing metadata from images and other files"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="what"></a>

What is metadata?
=================

Metadata is "data about data" or "information about information" that is embedded
in computer files, usually automatically. Metadata is used to describe,
identify, categorize, and locate files.

However, metadata can also be used to deanonymize users and expose
private information.

Examples of metadata include:

- In image files:
  - the location where a photo was taken
  - the date and time a photo was taken
  - the model of the camera used to take a photo
- In text document files:
  - the author of the document
  - changes to the document

To learn more about how metadata can be used to identify users, see
[Behind the Data: Investigating metadata](https://exposingtheinvisible.org/en/guides/behind-the-data-metadata-investigations/).

<a id="remove-metadata"></a>

Remove metadata from files
==========================

Tails includes
<a href="https://0xacab.org/jvoisin/mat2"><span class="application">mat2</span></a>
so you can remove metadata from files before you publish or share them.

<span class="application">mat2</span> works on many file formats, including:

- image files, such as .jpeg, .png, and .gif
- <span class="application">LibreOffice</span> files, such as .odt and .ods
- Office Open XML (OOXML) files, such as .docx, .xlsx, and .pptx
- audio files, such as .mp3, .flac, and .ogg
- video files, such as .mp4 and .avi
- archive files, such as .zip and .tar

To use <span class="application">mat2</span> to remove metadata from your
files:

1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Navigate to the folder containing the files that you want to remove
   metadata from.

1. Select the files that you want to remove metadata from.

1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the files and choose
   <span class="guimenuitem">Remove metadata</span>.

<div class="caution">

<p>It is impossible to reliably find and remove all metadata in complex file
formats.</p>

<p>To avoid unwanted metadata, you should configure your devices and software
to not save metadata in your files.</p>

<p>Also, instead of saving files in complex formats, you should save files in
simpler formats whenever possible. For example, instead of saving a text
document as a .docx file, you can save the document as a plain .txt file.</p>

</div>
