[[!meta title="Securely delete files and clean diskspace"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="why"></a>

Why use secure deletion?
========================

**Operating systems do not actually remove the contents of a file when it is
deleted**, even after emptying the trash or explicitly removing the file, from
the command line for example.

Instead, they simply remove the file's entry from the file system directory,
because this requires less work and is therefore faster. The contents of the
file—the actual data—remain on the storage medium. The data will remain there
until the operating system reuses the space for new data.

Likewise, reformatting, repartitioning or reimaging a system is not always
guaranteed to write to every area of the disk, though all will cause the disk to
appear empty or, in the case of reimaging, empty except for the files present in
the image, to most software.

Finally, even when the storage medium is overwritten, physical properties of the
medium may make it possible to recover the previous contents. In most cases
however, this recovery is not possible by just reading from the storage device
in the usual way, but requires using laboratory techniques such as disassembling
the device and directly accessing/reading from its components.

<p class="quoted-from">Quoted from [[!wikipedia Secure_file_deletion
desc="Wikipedia: %s"]].</p>

<a id="usb_and_ssd"></a>

Warning about USB sticks and solid-state disks
==============================================

The only way to securely delete any data, even a single file, from a USB
stick or an SSD (Solid-State Disk) is to [[securely erase the entire
device|secure_deletion#erase-device]].

For more details read the corresponding section of the Wikipedia article on
[[!wikipedia Data_erasure#Limitations desc="Data erasure"]].

Securely delete files
=====================

<div class="caution">

<p>Securely deleting files does not erase the potential backup copies of
the file (for example LibreOffice creates backup copies that allow
you to recover your work in case LibreOffice stops responding).</p>

</div>

  1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

  1. Navigate to the folder containing the files that you want to delete.

  1. Select the files that you want to delete with the mouse.

  1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the files and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Wipe</span>.

     [[!img wipe_files.png link=no alt="Right-click&nbsp;▸ Wipe"]]

  1. Confirm.

  1. The deletion will start. It can last from a few seconds to several minutes,
  according to the size of the files. Be patient…

<a id="clean_disk_space"></a>

Securely clean available disk space
===================================

In order to clean up the contents of all files that were previously suppressed
but not securely deleted from a disk, it is also possible to securely clean all 
the free space on the disk.

<div class="caution">

<p>This method does not work as expected on solid-state disks or USB
sticks.</p>

</div>

The disk or the folder may or may not contain other files. Those files will not
be deleted during the operation.

  1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

  1. Click on the disk that you want to clean in the left pane to
     navigate to the root of this disk.

  1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/pan-down.png alt="menu toggle"
     class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button in the title bar and choose
     <span class="guilabel">Show Hidden Files</span>.

  1. If you want to empty the trash, delete the <span class="filename">.Trash-1000</span> folder or
     similar.

  1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) in empty space in the right pane and choose <span
     class="guimenuitem">Wipe available diskspace</span>.

     [[!img wipe_available_diskspace.png link=no alt="Right-click&nbsp;▸ Wipe
     available diskspace"]]

  1. Confirm.

  1. The cleaning starts. It can last from a few minutes to a few hours,
     according to the size of the available diskspace. Be patient…

     Note that a file with a name similar to <span
     class="filename">tmp.7JwHAyBvA9</span> is created in the
     folder. It is made as big as possible to use all the available diskspace and
     then securely deleted.

<a id="erase-device"></a>

Securely erasing an entire device
=================================

<div class="note">

<p>This technique is the only way to securely delete any data, even a
single file, from a USB stick or an SSD (Solid-State Disk).</p>

</div>

1. Open the <span class="application">Disks</span> utility.

   All the current storage devices are listed in the left pane.

1. Plug in the USB stick or SSD that you want to securely delete.

1. A new device appears in the list of storage devices. Click on it:

   [[!img encrypted_volumes/storage_devices_after.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Check that the description of the device on the right side of the screen
   corresponds to your device: its brand, its size, etc.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button
   in the titlebar and choose <span class="guilabel">Format Disk…</span>
   to erase all the existing partitions on the device.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Format Disk</span> dialog:

   - Choose to
     <span class="guilabel">Overwrite existing data with zeroes</span> in the
     <span class="guilabel">Erase</span> drop-down list.

   - Choose <span class="guilabel">Compatible with all
     systems and devices (MBR/DOS)</span> in the <span class="guilabel">Partitioning</span>
     drop-down list.

1. Click <span class="button">Format…</span>.

1. In the confirmation dialog, make sure that the device
   is correct. Click <span class="button">Format</span> to confirm.
