[[!meta title="TrueCrypt"]]

[[!toc]]

Security considerations
=======================

Although *TrueCrypt* looks like free software, [concerns](http://www.happyassassin.net/2008/08/06/open-letter-to-the-developers-of-truecrypt/) over
[its licence](http://www.truecrypt.org/legal/license) prevent its inclusion in Debian.
Truecrypt is also *developed* in a closed
fashion, so while the source code is freely available,
it may receive less review than might a comparable openly developed project.

Lastly, on 28 May 2014, the [*TrueCrypt* website](http://truecrypt.sourceforge.net/) announced that the
project was no longer maintained and recommended users to find
alternate solutions. That website now reads:

> WARNING: Using TrueCrypt is not secure as it may contain unfixed security issues.

For the above reasons, we recommend that you use [[LUKS encrypted
volumes|/doc/encryption_and_privacy/encrypted_volumes]] instead of *TrueCrypt*
volumes.

Still, you can open *TrueCrypt* volumes in Tails, either:

 * [[Using `cryptsetup`|truecrypt#cryptsetup]] which is actively
   maintained in Tails (recommended).
 * [[Using *TrueCrypt*|truecrypt#truecrypt]] which will be removed in
   Tails 1.2.1 (November 25).

<a id="cryptsetup"></a>

Opening *TrueCrypt* volumes using `cryptsetup`
==============================================

You can open most standard and hidden *TrueCrypt* volumes using the `cryptsetup`
command line.

1. [[Set up an administration
   password|first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span>
   to open a terminal with administration rights.

1. **If your *TrueCrypt* volume is in a file container** (and not within a
partition), you first need to attach it to a device.

   To find the name of an available device, execute the following
   command:

      losetup -f

   Then to attach your file container to that device, execute the following
   command. Replace `[loop]` by the name of the device returned by the
   previous command and `[file]` by the path to your *TrueCrypt* file container:

      losetup [device] [file]

   Here is an example of the command to execute, yours is probably different:

      losetup /dev/loop1 /home/amnesia/Persistent/container

1. **If you want to open a standard *TrueCrypt* volume**, execute the
   following command. Replace `[device]` with the name of the device,
   and `[name]` with a name of your choice.

       cryptsetup open --type tcrypt [device] [name]
   
   Here is an example of the command to execute, yours is probably
   different:

       cryptsetup open --type tcrypt /dev/sdc1 mystandard

   **Else, if you want to open a hidden *TrueCrypt* volume**, execute
   the following command. Replace `[device]` with the name of the
   device, and `[name]` with a name of your choice.

       cryptsetup --tcrypt-hidden open --type tcrypt [device] [name]
   
   Here is an example of the command to execute, yours is probably
   different:

       cryptsetup --tcrypt-hidden open --type tcrypt /dev/sdc2 myhidden

1. After typing your password and once the command prompt reappears, execute the following commands to mount
   the volume. Replace `[name]` with the name chosen in step 4.

       mkdir /media/[name]

   a. And, if your volume contains a **NTFS or FAT file system** (default):

          mount -o uid=1000 /dev/mapper/[name] /media/[name]

   a. Else, if your volume contains an **Ext2, Ext3, or Ext4 file system**:

          mount /dev/mapper/[name] /media/[name]

1. If you don't see any error message, the volume is now available from the
   <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu.

1. When you want to close your *TrueCrypt* volume, execute
   the following commands to safely remove it.
   Replace `[name]`with the mapping name chosen in step 4.

       umount /media/[name]
       cryptsetup close [name]

<a id="truecrypt"></a>

Starting *TrueCrypt*
====================

<div class="note">

<p><em>TrueCrypt</em> will be removed in Tails 1.2.1 (November 25).
We recommend that you learn how to [[open <emph>TrueCrypt</emph> volumes with
<code>cryptsetup</code>|truecrypt#cryptsetup]] as soon as possible.</p>

</div>

*TrueCrypt* is not enabled by default when Tails starts. In order to use
*TrueCrypt*, add the <span class="command">truecrypt</span> boot option
to the <span class="application">boot menu</span>. For detailed
instructions, see the documentation on [[using the <span
class="application">boot
menu</span>|first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]].

Once Tails has started, to start <span
class="application">TrueCrypt</span> choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">TrueCrypt</span></span>.
