Archived discussions
====================

Include additional debugging information?
-----------------------------------------

We might add the possibility to include logs, debugging info etc.,
perhaps something like the Incognito
[script](https://tor-svn.freehaven.net/svn/incognito/trunk/root_overlay/usr/bin/incognito-debug)
does.

_Nota bene_:

* that script was mostly written for the Incognito developer's own
  personal usage
* scrubbing of IP/MAC addresses from ifconfig output and similar
  sensitive information should of course be done in order to not
  compromise the *real* users.

> Agreed. I imported this script and adapted it a bit.
>
> Pending questions:
> 
> 1. How useful would the cleaned-up `ifconfig` and `iwconfig`
>    output be? I am in favour of not including them at all, and
>    removed them from the script.
> 2. After testing this script, I can't think of any other
>    privacy-sensitive information that needs to be cleaned-up.
>    Any idea?
>> 
>>   I don't like the idea that this script being defaults, as I fear
>>   that the information that it discloses give the machine model.
>>> 
>>> Computers being mass-market products, I don't consider this is
>>> a huge problem, providing the user is clearly warned about it.
>>> 
>>>> OK, let's say that giving that in addition the mail is encrypted,
>>>> there's no problem to disclose that.
>>>>
>
> 3. Should this be an option provided in the GUI? If yes, opt-in or
>    opt-out? I believe we should make this the default, not provide
>    any way to disable it, but warn the user about it and display
>    a link to inspect the tarball's content. What do you think?
>> 
>>   As a result of comment in #2, I would prefere an option in the
>>   GUI, and preferabily an opt-in. But it could be answered that the
>>   mail will be encrypted and on opt-out could not be *so* bad...
>>> 
>>> ... Especially as the e-mail is going to be send encrypted to the
>>> amnesia *developers*. Once you have decided you trust them enough
>>> to build the Live OS you use for privacy-sensitive matters,
>>> I believe you trust them enough to disclose (anonymously) your
>>> computer model, too.
> 
> 4. What would be the files to copy on Debian instead of the Gentoo's
>    `/etc/sysconfig/*`?
