[[!meta title="Manually installing onto a USB stick, for Linux"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/manual_usb_installation.intro" raw="yes"]]

This technique uses the command line.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Install isohybrid</h2>

Under Debian or Ubuntu the `isohybrid` utility is included in the `syslinux`
package. You can execute the following command:

    apt-get install syslinux

<a id="step_2"></a>

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Find out the device name of the USB stick</h2>

The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you are not sure about the exact device name, with GNOME, do the
following:

  1. Unplug the USB stick.
  1. Open <span class="application">GNOME Disk Utility</span> from the menu
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Disk Utility</span>
     </span>
  1. <span class="application">Disk Utility</span> lists all the current storage devices on the
     left side of the screen.
  1. Plug back the USB stick. A new device should appear in the list of
     storage devices. Select it with the cursor.
  1. Check that the description of the device corresponds to your USB
     stick, its brand, its size, etc. on the right side of the screen.

     [[!img destination_device_description.png link=no alt="Drive description containing: 'Device: /dev/sdc'"]]

     On this screenshot, the USB stick is a Kingston DataTraveler of 2.0
     GB and its device name is `/dev/sdc`. Yours could be different.

<div class="caution">
If you are not sure about the device name, you should stop
proceeding or <strong>you risk overwriting any hard drive on the
system</strong>.
</div>

<a id="step_3"></a>

<h2 class="bullet-number-three">Do the copy</h2>

Execute the following commands, replacing `[tails.iso]` with the path
to the ISO image that you want to copy and `[device]` with the device
name found in step 2.

    isohybrid [tails.iso] --entry 4 --type 0x1c
    cat [tails.iso] > [device] && sync

Here is an example of the commands to execute, yours might be different:

    isohybrid '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' --entry 4 --type 0x1c
    cat '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' > /dev/sdc && sync

<div class="tip">
If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a
<span class="guilabel">No such
file or directory</span> error message, you can first type
<code>cat</code>, followed by a space, and
then drag and drop the icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto the
terminal. This should insert the correct path to the ISO image in the terminal.
Then complete the command and execute it.
</div>

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied
onto the USB stick. The whole process might take some time, generally a few
minutes.

<div class="next">
<p>Once the command prompt reappears, you can shutdown your computer, and
[[start Tails|/download/#start]] from this new USB stick.</p>
</div>

Troubleshooting
===============

### cat: /dev/sdx: No such file or directory

Then double-check the name of the device you found in [[step
2|linux#step_2]].

### cat: /dev/sdx: Permission denied

You might also have committed a mistake in the device name, so please
double-check it. If you are sure about the device name, this could be a
permission problem and you could need to gain administration privileges before running the
commands in the terminal. That could be:

    sudo su -
    isohybrid [tails.iso] --entry 4 --type 0x1c
    cat [tails.iso] > [device] && sync

### cat: tails.iso: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake on the path to the ISO image in [[step
3|linux#step_3]].
