[[!meta title="Manually installing onto a USB stick, for Mac"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/manual_usb_installation.intro" raw="yes"]]

This technique uses the command line.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Setup rEFInd</h2>

You need to have [rEFInd](http://sourceforge.net/projects/refind/) installed and
working on the Mac.

If you need help with rEFInd, look at [their installation
documentation](http://www.rodsbooks.com/refind/installing.html).

<div class="caution">
rEFInd will replace your original bootloader.<br/>
<strong>This could cause your Mac to not boot.</strong> It is recommended to create a full backup and know how to
restore. See <a href="https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1427">Apple's
instructions</a>.
</div>

<a id="step_2"></a>

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Find out the device name of the USB stick</h2>

The device name should be something like `/dev/disk1`, `/dev/disk2`, etc.

If you are not sure about the exact device name, do the following:

  1. Unplug the USB stick.
  1. Open <span class="application">Terminal</span> from
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal.app</span>
     </span>
  1. Execute the following command:

         diskUtil list

     This returns a list of all the current storage devices. For example:

<pre>
$ diskUtil list
/dev/disk0
    #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
    0:      GUID_partition_scheme                     *500.1 GB   disk0
    1:                        EFI                      209.7 MB   disk0s1
    2:                  Apple_HFS MacDrive             250.0 GB   disk0s2
    3:                        EFI                      134.1 GB   disk0s3
    4:       Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP             115.5 GB   disk0s4
</pre>

  1. Plug back the USB stick and run the same command as before:

         diskUtil list

     A new device should appear in the list of storage devices. Check
     that the size of the device corresponds to the size of your USB
     stick.

<pre>
$ diskUtil list
/dev/disk0
   #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
   0:      GUID_partition_scheme                     *500.1 GB   disk0
   1:                        EFI                      209.7 MB   disk0s1
   2:                  Apple_HFS MacDrive             250.0 GB   disk0s2
   3:                        EFI                      134.1 GB   disk0s3
   4:       Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP             115.5 GB   disk0s4
/dev/disk1
   #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
   0:     FDisk_partition_scheme                     *4.0 GB     disk1
   1:                  Apple_HFS Untitled 1           4.0 GB     disk1s1
</pre>

In this example, the USB stick is 4.0 GB and the device name is `/dev/disk1`.
Yours could be different.

<div class="caution">
If you are not sure about the device name you should stop proceeding or
<strong>you risk overwriting any hard drive on the system</strong>.
</div>

<a id="step_3"></a>

<h2 class="bullet-number-three">Unmount the USB drive</h2>

Execute the following command, replacing `[device]`
with the device name found in step 2.

     diskUtil unmountDisk [device]

<h2 class="bullet-number-four">Run isohybrid.pl on the ISO image</h2>

You need to modify the ISO image using `isohybrid` before copying it onto
the USB stick.

1. Download [syslinux](http://ftp.debian.org/debian/pool/main/s/syslinux/syslinux_4.02+dfsg.orig.tar.gz).
1. Double click on the package to extract it.
1. Copy `isohybrid.pl` from the `/utils` folder to the desktop.
1. Copy the ISO image (for example `tails-i386-0.17.1.iso`) to the desktop.
1. To change directory into the desktop, execute:

       cd Desktop

1. To run `isohybrid.pl` on the ISO image, execute the following command,
   replacing `[tails.iso]` with the path to the ISO image that you want to
   install.

       perl isohybrid.pl [tails.iso]

   Here is an example of the commands to execute, yours might be different:

       perl isohybrid.pl tails-i386-0.17.1.iso

<div class="tip">
If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a
<span class="guilabel">No such
file or directory</span> error, you can first type `perl isohybrid.pl`, followed by a space, and
then drag and drop the icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto
<span class="application">
Terminal</span>. This should insert the correct path to the ISO image in
<span class="application">Terminal</span>.
Then complete the command and execute it.
</div>

<h2 class="bullet-number-five">Do the copy</h2>

Execute the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` by the path to the ISO
image that you want to copy and `[device]` by the device name found in step
1.

    cat [tails.iso] > [device] && sync

You should get something like this:

    cat tails-i386-0.17.1.iso > /dev/disk1 && sync

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the USB
stick. The whole process might take some time, generally a few minutes.

<div class="next">
<p>Once the command prompt reappears, you can restart your Mac.
Wait for the rEFInd menu and select the USB stick to
[[start Tails|/download/#start]].</p>
</div>

Notes
=====

This method was successfully tested on the following hardware:

  - MacBook Pro Model A1150, OS X 10.6.8, 2006

The method worked on some hardware but a bug in the video support
prevented Tails to start successfully:

  - MacBook Pro Retina, with OS X 10.8.3, December 2012

Note that Tails developers are in general not very knowledgeable about
Mac. Any additional information is welcome.

<!--
An alternative method was suggested:

1. Open Disk Utility
1. Find The Drive
1. Format Tab
1. Source is ISO File
1. Destination is USB Drive
-->
