[[!meta title="Translate Tails website into a new language"]]

There are already some active website translation teams,
coordinating via the [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]].

So, you want the Tails website to be available in a new language.
Please keep in mind that it represents quite a lot of work.

Therefore, here are a few things that would be required in order to start
translating the Tails website to a new language:

1. A team of translators, not just one person, is necessary.
   This allows for peer reviews between team members. It also makes it
   easier to handle both scheduled and unexpected deadlines.

2. At least part of the team should subscribe to the [[mailing list
   for translators|translate#follow-up]].

3. For translations to be useful, they need to be maintained in the
   long run. This takes a few hours a month.

Once those conditions are fulfilled, the new team can start working on a first
batch of translations:

  - The Tails custom programs, as [[documented earlier|translate#translate]]

  - Important parts of our website:

    - [[/index]]
    - [[/about]] page
    - [[/getting_started]] page
    - [[/support]] page
    - [[/download]] page
    - [[/doc/about]] section
    - [[/doc/first_steps]] section

    See the exhaustive list of [[core pages|l10n_tricks/core_po_files.txt]].

This may take some time. Don't get discouraged! Along the way, do not
hesitate to report about your progress, and to ask for help, on the
[[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]] :)

Finally, in order to ease collaboration and to make it easier to join
you, the new team should document what glossaries it uses, and what
Git repositories are used by its members (see e.g. the [[French
translation team's documentation|translate/team/fr]]).
