[[!meta title="Work with Simply Secure on explaining Tails"]]

During the summer 2018, we are working with [Simply
Secure](https://simplysecure.org/) to develop new concepts and
guidelines that will help explain Tails to new users and ultimately lead
to a better onboarding experience:

- Internally, to get a collective agreement on the values and style
  behind how we want to present Tails (e.g. defining brand attributes).
  These would aid in future work, e.g. defining a visual style guide and
  the tone of the website.

- Externally, to make the Tails website more accessible and
  approachable. This includes revising the current tagline ("The Amnesic
  Incognito Live System"), restructuring the explanations around Tails,
  and clarifying some of the terminology used (e.g. “persistence”).

[[!toc levels=2]]

Related pages
=============

Other work
----------

- [[Personas|blueprint/personas]]
- [[Interviews of users|blueprint/interviews]]
- [[Explain Tails|blueprint/explain_tails]], with the output for the IFF session

Existing content
----------------

- [[Persistent|doc/first_steps/persistence]]
- [[Homepage|index]]
- [[About|about]]
- [[Getting started|getting_started]]
- [[Features|doc/about/features]]
- [[Warnings|doc/about/warning]]

Outputs
=======

Brand attributes
----------------

These will help us for future work like defining a graphical style
guide, defining the tone on our website, the type of visuals to use,
etc.

XXX: Link to resources on brand attributes

### Deliverable

- A “brand identity” summary based on a workshop with the whole
  community.

Tagline
-------

The current tagline ("The Amnesic Incognito Live System") is an heritage
of Tails being initially an acronym. But it's probably not the most
approachable way of describing Tails in a few words...

### Deliverables

- A new tagline or a list of potential candidate taglines for selection
  or further refinement by the Tails community.

Tone and writing style
----------------------

Review our current home and related pages on how to make them more
approachable. As a way of pointing out things that are currently putting
off or too complex.

So far we tried to use everywhere on our website a plain and neutral
tone inherited from the writing style of documentation and software
interface.

- Should we use different tones in different sections of our website?
- If so which tone should we used when explaining what is Tails to
  first-time users?
- How should it sound?

### Deliverable

- Suggestions in copy and documentation for clarity and tone.
- Redacted copy sample to illustrate tone.

Structured explanation
----------------------

Structure an explanation of the main properties of Tails from the big
pictures to a more complete understanding.

Cf. our current home and about page.

Plus, they are not mentioning persistence which has become a key
property (more than half of our users have one).

- What do we put first? What is more important? What can be omitted?
- Is there anything missing if seen from a different angle (e.g.
  "malware resistant")?

### Deliverable

- An explanation (for example a metaphor) that helps potential users
  understand Tails quickly, or similarly a list of candidate metaphors

Persistence
-----------

The "persistence" is an encrypted storage that users can create on their
Tails USB stick to store personal files and settings. We've been
hesitating about how to call this property and have been using
inconsistent terminology for years. Since it's becoming a more central
property of Tails it might help us to have external expert advice and
settle on a better terminology once and for good.

### Deliverable

- Clarified terms such as “persistence”.

Visuals
-------

Ideate on how to support visually the description of what is Tails.

### Deliverable

- Ideation on visual explanations of Tails.

Activities
==========

Communication channels
----------------------

- It's impossible to connect to WebRTC-based voice chats from Tails but
  it's so convenient that we'll use them for the preparation of the
  activities at the summit. We won't make public the URL for the
  meetings but we'll send them to the people from the community that
  want to attend.

- We'll send updates of our preparation work to
  [tails-ux@boum.org](https://mailman.boum.org/admin/tails-ux), our
  public mailing list about UX.

- We'll use this blueprint to prepare and document our work.

- We might use other collaborative tools if needed:

  - [[Redmine bug tracker|contribute/working_together/Redmine]]
  - [UX Git repository](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/ux)

Pre-summit
----------

- Review existing content
- Create templates and snippets from the current website
- Prepare material for the workshops (personas / use cases as posters)

Summit
------

Regarding the time available at the summit, we usually do 3 hours of
meetings in the morning and 3 hours in the afternoon.

For this project we can have at least:

- A block of 3 hours of plenary (discussion with everybody). We tend to
  do plenaries in the morning but it's not a requirement.
- Several blocks of smaller working groups of either 1 or 2 hours.
  Probably 3 hours at least, maybe more.

We don't have an agenda for the whole summit yet and we might be able to
have more time than that. This is just a safe minimum.

- 3-hours plenary workshop on identity.
- 2-4 smaller workshops to be defined.

### Privacy

In the past we haven't made public neither the dates, the venue, nor the
list of participants of the summit; though it's not a strong policy.
Let's try to stick to that unless it becomes a problem.

Post-summit
-----------

Eileen and sajolida will work again one day right after the summit.
