[[!meta title="Installing Tails on a USB stick from Debian, Ubuntu, or Mint"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="bootstrap" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/assistant" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/dave" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/steps" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/debian" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta script="install/inc/js/dave"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/tails-installation-assistant.inline" raw="yes"]]

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/os-debian-ubuntu.png link="no"]]</div>

Start in Debian, Ubuntu, or Linux Mint.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/debian_requirements.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/download.inline" raw="yes"]]

Install <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>
========================================================

In this step, you will install <span class="application">Tails
Installer</span>, a program designed specifically for installing Tails.

If you are running Debian
-------------------------

1. Make sure that you are connected to the Internet.

1. Start <span class="application">Synaptic Package Manager</span>.

1. Choose
   <span class="guimenupath">
     <span class="guimenu">Settings</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Repositories</span></span>.

1. To add the *jessie-backports* repository, click
   <span class="button">New</span> in the <span class="guilabel">Repositories</span>
   dialog and specify:

   - <span class="guilabel">URI</span>: *http://http.debian.net/debian/*
   - <span class="guilabel">Distributions</span>: *jessie-backports*
   - <span class="guilabel">Section(s)</span>: *main*

1. Click <span class="button">Ok</span>.

1. In the confirmation dialog, click <span class="guilabel">Reload</span> and
   wait for the download of the package information to finish.

1. In the main windows of <span class="application">Synaptic</span>, click
   <span class="button">Search</span> and search for `tails-installer`.

1. In the list of packages, double-click on `tails-installer` to mark
   `tails-installer` for installation.

1. In the confirmation dialog, click <span class="button">Mark</span>.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Apply</span> button in the toolbar to
   apply the changes.

1. In the confirmation dialog, click <span class="button">Apply</span>.

1. After all the changes are applied, close <span class="application">Synaptic</span>.

If you are running Ubuntu
-------------------------

1. Make sure that you are connected to the Internet.

1. Start <span class="application">Ubuntu Software Center</span>.

1. Choose
   <span class="guimenupath">
     <span class="guimenu">Edit</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Software Sources&hellip;</span></span>

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Software & Updates</span> dialog,
   make sure that the *universe* repository (labelled
   <span class="guilabel">Community-maintained free and open source
   software</span>) is selected.

1. Open the <span class="guilabel">Other Software</span> tab, and click
   on the <span class="button">Add&hellip;</span> button.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">APT line</span> field, specify
   `ppa:tails-team/tails-installer` and click the
   <span class="button">Add Source</span> button.

1. A new software source named
   <span class="filename">https://ppa.launchpad.net/tails-team/tails-installer/ubuntu</span>
   appears in the list of sources.

1. Close the <span class="guilabel">Software & Updates</span> dialog.

1. In the main window of <span class="application">Ubuntu Software Center</span>,
   search for `tails-installer`.

   <div class="bug">
   <p>If no package named `tails-installer` can be found, you might have to
   reload the cache of <span class="application">Ubuntu Software Center</span>, to
   do so you can either:</p>

   <ul>
     <li>Execute <span class="command">sudo update-apt-xapian-index</span>
     in a terminal.</span></li>
     <li>Restart Ubuntu.</li>
   </ul>
   </div>

1. Select `tails-installer` in the list of packages and click <span class="button">Install</span>.

1. After `tails-installer` is installed, close <span class="application">Ubuntu Software Center</span>.

If you are running Linux Mint
-----------------------------

1. Make sure that you are connected to the Internet.

1. Start <span class="application">Software Manager</span>.

1. Choose
   <span class="guimenupath">
     <span class="guimenu">Edit</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Software sources</span></span>.

1. Click on the <span class="guilabel">PPAs</span> button and then
   choose to <span class="button">Add a new PPA&hellip;</span>.

1. In the dialog, specify `ppa:tails-team/tails-installer` and click
   <span class="button">Ok</span>.

1. Click <span class="button">Ok</span> again to close the description
   of the PPA.

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Software Sources</span> window, click
   on the <span class="button">Update the cache</span> button and wait
   for the download of the package information to finish.

1. Close the <span class="guilabel">Software Sources</span> dialog.

1. Wait a few seconds until <span class="application">Software Manager</span> reappears.

1. In the main window of <span class="application">Software
   Manager</span>, search for `tails-installer` and double-click on <span
   class="guilabel">Tails Installer</span> in the search results.

1. Click <span class="button">Install</span> in the description of
   <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

1. After <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> is installed,
   close <span class="application">Software Manager</span>.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_final.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence.inline" raw="yes"]]
