[[!meta title="Troubleshooting Tails not starting after the Boot Loader"]]

The following section applies when the Boot Loader appears but not
the Welcome Screen when starting Tails.

<h2>Verify your Tails USB stick</h2>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/basic_troubleshooting.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<h2 id="graphics">Check our list of known issues on graphics cards</h2>

If the computer displays the error message **Error starting GDM with your
graphics card**, refer to our [[list of known issues with graphics
cards|support/known_issues/graphics]].

<h2 id="troubleshooting-mode">Try the Troubleshooting Mode</h2>

1. In the Boot Loader, choose the
<span class="guilabel">Troubleshooting Mode</span>
which might work better on some computers.

1. If the <span class="guilabel">Troubleshooting Mode</span> does not work
better, restart the computer again on your Tails USB stick.

<h2 id="boot-options">Add boot options</h2>

1. Depending on whether the Boot Loader is *GRUB* or *SYSLINUX*:

   <a id="grub"></a>

   If the Boot Loader is *GRUB*:

     1. Press **e** when GRUB appears.

        A new screen appears with more options.

        [[!img doc/advanced_topics/boot_options/grub-with-options.png link="no" alt="GRUB with a list of
        options starting with 'setparams Tails'"]]

        <div class="note">

        <p>If your Boot Loader looks different, refer to our instructions below on
        adding a boot option <a href="#syslinux">using SYSLINUX</a>.</p>

        </div>

     1. Navigate with the arrows of the keyboard to the end of the line that
        starts with <span class="code">linux</span>. The line is most likely
        wrapped and displayed on several lines on the screen but it is a
        single configuration line.

     1. Press the <span class="keycap">Backspace</span> key several times to
        remove the <span class="code">quiet</span> option from the command line.

     1. Type <span class="code">debug nosplash</span> to add these options to the command line.

     1. If Tails previously failed to start and displayed the
        following error:

        <p class="pre">Probing EDD (edd=off to disable)...</span>

        Then type `edd=off` to add this option to the command line.

     1. Press **Ctrl+X**, **F10**, or **Fn+F10** to start Tails.

     1. Hopefully, new error messages now appear when starting Tails. You can
        [[send them to our help desk by email|support/talk]], for example by taking a
        picture of the last screen and error messages.

   <a id="syslinux"></a>

   If the Boot Loader is *SYSLINUX*:

     1. Press
        <span class="keycap">Tab</span>. A command line with a list
        of boot options appears at the bottom of the screen.

        [[!img doc/advanced_topics/boot_options/syslinux-with-options.png link="no" alt="SYSLINUX with
        a list of options starting with '/live/vmlinuz' at the bottom"]]

        <div class="note">

        <p>If your Boot Loader looks different, refer to our instructions on
        adding a boot option <a href="#grub">using GRUB</a> above.</p>

        </div>

     1. Press the <span class="keycap">Backspace</span> key several times to
        remove the <span class="code">quiet</span> option from the command line.

     1. Type <span class="code">debug nosplash</span> to add these options to the command line.

     1. If Tails previously failed to start and displayed the
        following error:

        <p class="pre">Probing EDD (edd=off to disable)...</span>

        Then type <span class="code">edd=off</span> to add this option to the command line.

     1. Press <span class="keycap">Enter</span> to start Tails.

     1. Hopefully, new error messages now appear when starting Tails. You can
        [[send them to our help desk by email|support/talk]], for example by taking a
        picture of the last screen and error messages.
