[[!meta title="Starting Tails on PC"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="install/inc/stylesheets/standalone" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]

This page describes the basic and advanced techniques to start Tails from a USB stick on PC.

[[!toc levels=2]]

<h1 id="windows-restart">Starting from Windows 8 or 10</h1>

From Windows or the sign-in screen of Windows:

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/windows_boot_menu.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<div class="next">
<p>If the Boot Loader appears, you can continue reading our [[instructions
on the Welcome Screen and configuring the Persistent
Storage|install/win/usb#welcome-screen]].</p>
</div>

<h1 id="boot-menu-key">Starting using the Boot Menu key</h1>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/pc_boot_menu.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<div class="next">
<p>If the Boot Loader appears, you can continue reading our [[instructions
on the Welcome Screen and configuring the Persistent
Storage|install/win/usb#welcome-screen]].</p>
</div>

<h1 id="not-at-all">Troubleshooting Tails not starting at all</h1>

This section applies when the computer does not start on the USB stick and the Boot Loader is not displayed:

[[!img install/inc/screenshots/grub.png link="no" alt="Black screen
('GNU GRUB') with Tails logo and 2 options: 'Tails' and 'Tails
(Troubleshooting Mode)'."]]

<h2 id="verify">Verify your Tails USB stick</h2>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/basic_troubleshooting.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<h2 id="known-issues">Check our list of known issues</h2>

Similar problems might have been reported already for your model of computer
in our [[list of known issues|support/known_issues]].

<h2 id="bios-settings">Edit the BIOS settings (advanced users)</h2>

To learn how to edit the BIOS settings, search for the user manual of
the computer on the support website of the manufacturer.

<div class="caution">

<p>Take note of the changes that you apply to the BIOS settings. That way, you
can revert the changes if they prevent the computer from starting on its usual
operating system.</p>

</div>

In the BIOS settings, try to apply the following changes. Some changes might not
apply to certain computer models.

- There might be an option in your BIOS to enable the Boot Menu key. Make
  sure that the Boot Menu key is enabled. This option might be called
  **Boot Device List** or differently depending on the computer.

- Edit the **Boot Order**. Depending on the computer, you might
  see an entry for **Removable devices** or **USB media**. Move this entry
  to the top of the list to force the computer to try to start from
  the USB stick before starting from the internal hard disk.

- Disable **Fast boot**.

- Enable **CSM boot**.

- Enable **Legacy boot** in addition to UEFI.
  The computer might not start anymore on its regular operating system
  if you disable UEFI completely or if you only enable Legacy boot.

- Try to upgrade the BIOS. To do so, refer to the support website of
  the computer manufacturer.

<h2 id="help-desk">Report the problem to our help desk</h2>

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/start/reporting.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<h1 id="not-entirely">Troubleshooting Tails not starting after the Boot Loader</h1>

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/start/not_entirely.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
