[[!meta title="User testing"]]

Tester A
========

  - OS: Debian
  - Expertise: Occasional Tails user but never installed it before
  - Scenario: You lost your Tails key and need to create a new one.

Synopsis
--------

1. Start
   - Doesn't understand "willing".
   - Finds the first screen very friendly.
2. OS
   - → Debian & Ubuntu
3. Debian user
   - Doesn't choose "copy from a friend" because she's worried about her friend having a wrong or outdated version
     - Suggests to add that the friend might have an outdated version and you should check that beforehand
     - Suggests to change "friend" by "other USB"
   - Doesn't understand "from scratch".
   - Is confused by the line about download time and file size but understands it well in the end.
   - Is confused by having two lines with different time references:
     - Suggests to have a total time and a breakdown.
     - Suggests to put the download time before the file size.
   - When asked about what was on this screen:
     - Remembers well the 4 options.
     - Is not sure about the pros & cons of the different options:
       - "Copy from a friend is easier but it didn't seem to be safe"
       - "Virtual machine doesn't leave traces but the USB they can find it"
   - → Install from scratch
4. Command line
   - → Graphical installation

Tester B
========

  - OS: Ubuntu
  - Expertise: Has heard about Tails but never used it before.
  - Scenario: You want to publish some documents anonymously and a
    friend recommended you to install Tails.

Synopsis
--------

1. Start
2. OS
   - → Debian & Ubuntu
3. Copy vs install
   - "I could choose 'copy from a friend' and copy it from you but let's supposed that you're away..."
   - "Install from scratch seems to be the usual thing I do to install a Linux OS."
   - Finds that CD (sic) is not relevant for him because it's too much trouble.
   - Remembers well the requirements from both options.
   - Finds that 25 minutes is something reasonable.
4. Graphical vs command line
   - "Since the command line scenario gives me the same options than the graphical scenario I prefer the graphical."
   - → Graphical installation

Tester Z
========

  - OS: Debian
  - Expertise: Has installed Tails using dd in the past.
  - Scenario: Alone at home, you lost your Tails key and need to reinstall from scratch.

Synopsis
--------

1. Start
   - Likes to be warned
     - "It's a "journey", woh?! Sounds funny..."
2. OS
   - Is confused about what the "operating system" refers to
     - "It is possible to run Tails from Windows?! I didn't know that..."
   - → Debian & Ubuntu
3. Debian user
   - Doesn't choose "copy from a friend" (partly because of the scenario)
     - "I would have installed from scratch anyway because there are new
        versions all the time, so if I install from scratch I'm sure to
        have the latest version."
   - → Install from scratch
4. Command line
   - Chooses "graphical" because it sounds easier than the command line
   - "With command line you can verify using OpenPGP, cool."
   - → Graphical installation
