[[!meta title="Custom APT repository"]]

We use a custom APT repository to store our custom packages.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Overview
========

We use one single APT repository hosting multiple *suites*:

* We have a (read-only) suite for every past release: `0.9`,
  `0.10.1`, etc.
* We have a suite for each *main* branch: `stable`, `testing`,
  `devel`, `feature-jessie`
* We have an overlay suite for each *topic* branch: `bugfix/*`,
  `feature/*`, etc.
  **Note**: the APT suite corresponding to a given Git topic
  branch contains *only* the packages this branch adds to the tag or
  *main* branch it diverged from. Think of it as an overlay.
* We also have a less formal `unstable` suite, that should not be used
  by any Tails git branch; it can be used as hosting space for other
  packaging work we might do, e.g. acting as upstream or
  Debian maintainers.
* We also have a `builder-jessie` suite, used to provide additional
  packages needed on a Jessie system to build Tails.

The suite(s) to use as sources for APT, during the build and inside
the resulting system, are determined by the content of the
`config/base_branch` and `config/APT_overlays.d/*` files. See details in
the *Build system* section below.

Basically, a cronjob fetches the Tails Git repository every
few minutes, detects new branches, and accordingly create new suites
in the custom APT repository.

We manage our APT repository with [[!debpts reprepro]].
See the corresponding
[[documentation|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins#custom-apt-repository]]
for details.

Build system
============

The Tails ISO build system dynamically adds APT sources that will be
used during the build, and inside the resulting ISO itself.

If the last version in `debian/changelog` was released already (i.e.
a matching tag exists), then the build system adds the suite
corresponding to this release (e.g. `1.5` or `3.0`), and that's all.

Else, it adds:

* one APT source for the base branch of the one being built, as found
  in `config/base_branch`;
* one APT source for each suite listed in
  `config/APT_overlays.d/*`; note that only the name of such
  files matters, and their content is ignored.

In practice, `config/APT_overlays.d/` should contain:

* for a topic branch:
  - if needed, a file that is named like the branch's own overlay APT
    suite; e.g. for the `bugfix/12345-whatever` branch, it would be
    called `config/APT_overlays.d/bugfix-12345-whatever`
  - any file representing APT suites that came from merging its base
    branch into this topic branch, that is:
* for a base branch (`stable`, `testing`, `devel` or
  `feature/jessie`): a file for each additional, overlay APT suite that
  came from topic branches that ship Debian packages and were merged
  into this base branch since last time it was used to prepare
  a release.

The code that implements this is [[!tails_gitweb
auto/scripts/tails-custom-apt-sources]]. It has [[!tails_gitweb
features/build.feature desc="automated tests"]].

At release time, the release manager:

1. merges into the release branch's APT suite all APT overlay
   suites found in `config/APT_overlays.d/`;
2. empties `config/APT_overlays.d/` in the release branch;
3. merges the release branch into other base branches as needed, and
   ensures that all resulting `config/APT_overlays.d/`:s make sense.

Note that a branch like `feature/jessie` needs to be a base branch: we want to be
able to work on topic branches forked off `feature/jessie`.

SSH access
==========

Configure your SSH client to connect to the APT server:

	Host incoming.deb.tails.boum.org
		Port 3003

HTTP access
===========

The custom APT repository can be browsed at <https://deb.tails.boum.org/>.

Workflow
========

<a id="workflow-import-package"></a>

Importing a new package
-----------------------

### Creating a new branch

Push your branch to Git and wait a few minutes for the new APT suite
to appear on <https://deb.tails.boum.org/dists/>. You can look up the
name of that suite there.

Then, you probably want to drop a new file in
`config/APT_overlays.d/`, named after the APT suite corresponding to
your new branch:

    ./bin/add-APT-overlay

Incidentally, this gives you the name of the APT suite you'll have
to upload to later on.

For details, see the *Build system* section above.

### Building a package

If you want to import a package from Debian instead of building one, instead see
[[how to grant a freeze
exception|contribute/APT_repository/time-based_snapshots#freeze-exception]].

Make sure the `Distribution:` field in your `.changes` file matches
the suite you want the package to land in (e.g.
pass `--changes-option=-DDistribution=feature-torbrowser` to
pdebuild's `--debbuildopts`).

Make sure to have the `.changes` file include the original source
archive (`.orig.tar.{gz,bz2,xz}`) if it is not already in our APT
repository; this can be done by passing `-sa` to pdebuild's
`--debbuildopts`.

### Configuring an upload tool

#### Configuring dupload

Add this configuration snippet to your `dupload` configuration:

	$config::cfg{'tails'} = {
	        fqdn => "incoming.deb.tails.boum.org",
	        method => "scp",
	        login => "reprepro",
	        incoming => "/srv/reprepro/incoming/",
	        dinstall_runs => 1,
	};

#### Configuring dput

Add this to `.dput.cf`:

    [tails]
    fqdn            = incoming.deb.tails.boum.org
    method          = scp
    login           = reprepro
    incoming        = /srv/reprepro/incoming/
    run_dinstall    = 0

If you don't have upload rights to Debian / don't use dput to upload to anything
else but Tails, you might want to also add this section to `.dput.cf` to
use the `[tails]` section by default:

    [DEFAULT]
    default_host_main = tails


### Uploading and importing process

Carefully prepare and build your package. Usual precautions, (Lintian
etc.) apply.

Carefully check the `.changes` file (especially the `Distribution`
control field, and the included files list; the former can be fixed
with the `changestool(1)` command, from [[!debpkg reprepro]]).

If the `.orig.tar.{gz,bz2,xz}` tarball is present neither in the
`.changes` file nor in our custom APT repository, add it using:

	$ changestool $CHANGES_FILE includeallsources

Make sure that the `.changes` file lists the _binary_ packages too:
Tails has no package auto-builder that would build them from source
for you.

Sign the `.changes` file with a key that is in the uploaders list:

	$ debsign $CHANGES_FILE

Upload the files to the incoming queue:

	$ dupload --to tails $CHANGES_FILE

or, using dput:

	$ dput tails $CHANGES_FILE

reprepro will automatically notice the new files and import them into
the suite specified in your `.changes` file.

Check the result:

	$ ssh reprepro@incoming.deb.tails.boum.org reprepro list $SUITE $PACKAGENAME

<a id="workflow-merge-main-branch"></a>

Merging a main branch
----------------------

When a Git *main* branch (`devel`, `testing`, `stable`)
is merged into another *main* branch, the corresponding
operation must be done on the APT suites.

[[!tails_gitweb bin/merge-main-branch]] does both: merging in Git and in our
custom APT repository. It also leads you through some manual checks you
must perform.

1. Set some environment variables:

            WORKDIR=$(mktemp -d)
            # the branch you want to merge
            SRC=stable
            # the branch you want to merge _into_
            DST=devel

2. Merge the Git branch and APT suite:

        ./bin/merge-main-branch "${SRC:?}" "${DST:?}"

<a id="workflow-reset"></a>

Resetting a suite to the state of another one
---------------------------------------------

1. Set some environment variables:

   - `SUITE_TO_RESET`: the suite to reset
   - `DESIRED_NEW_STATE`: the final state `$SUITE_TO_RESET` should be in

2. Reset the suite:

        ./bin/reset-custom-APT-suite "${SUITE_TO_RESET:?}" "${DESIRED_NEW_STATE:?}"

<a id="workflow-merge-overlays"></a>

Merging APT overlays
--------------------

This operation merges all APT overlays listed in the given branch's
`config/APT_overlays.d/` into its own APT suite, empties
`config/APT_overlays.d/` accordingly, then commits and pushes to Git.

    ./bin/merge-APT-overlays "${BRANCH:?}"

Giving access to a core developer
---------------------------------

1. Give SSH access to the `reprepro` user on the system that hosts
   reprepro (using the `ssh_authorized_key` Puppet resource, until
   [[!tails_ticket 12346]] is resolved).
2. Import the developer's public GnuPG key into the `reprepro` user's
   GnuPG keyring -- should be doable using Puppet, some day
3. Add the developer's OpenPGP key ID to `$reprepro_uploaders` in our
   `tails::reprepro` Puppet module. Deploy.

Contributing without privileged access
--------------------------------------

Non-core developers without access to the "private" APT infrastructure
would add the .deb they want to their Git branch as we have been
doing until now, push the result to their own Git repository... and at
merge time, we would rewrite their history to remove the .deb, and
import it into our APT repo.
