[[!meta title="Install from Debian, Ubuntu, or Mint using the command line and GnuPG"]]

[[!meta robots="noindex"]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/assistant" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/steps" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/expert" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]

Start in Debian, Ubuntu, or Linux Mint.

<h1 id="verify-key">Verify the Tails signing key</h1>

<div class="tip">

<p>If you already certified the Tails signing key with your own key, you
can skip this step and start [[downloading and verifying the USB
image|usb#download]].</p>

</div>

In this step, you will download and verify the *Tails signing
key* which is the OpenPGP key that is used to cryptographically sign
the Tails USB image.

<div class="note">

<p>To follow these instructions you need to have your own OpenPGP
key.</p>

<p>To learn how to create yourself an OpenPGP key, see
<a href="https://help.riseup.net/en/security/message-security/openpgp/gpg-keys">Managing
OpenPGP Keys</a> by <em>Riseup</em>.</p>

</div>

This verification technique uses the OpenPGP Web of Trust and the
certification made by official Debian developers on the Tails signing
key. [[Learn more about the OpenPGP Web of
Trust|install/download#openpgp]].

1. Import the Tails signing key in your <span class="application">GnuPG</span> keyring:

       wget https://tails.boum.org/tails-signing.key
       gpg --import < tails-signing.key

1. Install the Debian keyring. It contains the OpenPGP keys of all Debian developers:

       sudo apt install debian-keyring

1. Import the OpenPGP key of [[!wikipedia Stefano_Zacchiroli]], a former
   Debian Project Leader, from the Debian keyring into your keyring:

       gpg --keyring=/usr/share/keyrings/debian-keyring.gpg --export zack@upsilon.cc | gpg --import

1. Verify the certifications made on the Tails signing key:

       gpg --keyid-format 0xlong --check-sigs A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

   In the output of this command, look for the following line:

       sig! 0x9C31503C6D866396 2015-02-03  Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@upsilon.cc>

   Here, <code>sig!</code>, with an exclamation mark, means that Stefano
   Zacchiroli verified and certified the Tails signing key with his key.

   It is also possible to verify the certifications made by other
   people. Their name and email address appear in the list of
   certification if you have their key in your keyring.

   <div class="caution">
   <p>If the verification of the certification failed, then you might
   have downloaded a malicious version of the Tails signing key or our
   instructions might be outdated.
   Please [[get in touch with us|support/talk]].</p>
   </div>

   <div class="tip">
   <p>The line `175 signatures not checked due to missing keys` or similar
   refers to the certifications (also called *signatures*) made by other public
   keys that are not in your keyring. This is not a problem.</p>
   </div>

1. Certify the Tails signing key with your own key:

   a. To make a non-exportable certification that will never be shared
      with others:

          gpg --lsign-key A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

   b. To make an exportable certification of the Tails signing
      key and publish it on the public key servers:

          gpg --sign-key A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F
          gpg --send-keys A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

      Doing so allows people who verified
      your key to verify your certification and, as a consequence, build
      more trust in the Tails signing key.

<a id="download"></a>

<h1 id="download-verify">Download and verify the USB image</h1>

In this step, you will download the latest Tails USB image and verify it
using the Tails signing key.

1. Download the USB image:

   <p class="pre">wget --continue [[!inline pages="inc/stable_amd64_img_url" raw="yes" sort="age"]]</p>

1. Download the signature of the USB image:

   <p class="pre">wget [[!inline pages="inc/stable_amd64_img_sig_url" raw="yes" sort="age"]]</p>

1. Verify that the USB image is signed by the Tails signing key:

   <p class="pre">[[!inline pages="inc/stable_amd64_img_gpg_verify" raw="yes" sort="age"]]</p>

   The output of this command should be the following:

   <p class="pre">[[!inline pages="inc/stable_amd64_img_gpg_signature_output" raw="yes" sort="age"]]</p>

   Verify in this output that:

     - The date of the signature is the same.
     - The signature is marked as <code>Good signature</code> since you
       certified the Tails signing key with your own key.

<a id="dd"></a>

Install Tails using <span class="command">dd</span>
===================================================

1. Make sure that the USB stick on which you want to install Tails is
   unplugged.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">ls -1 /dev/sd?</p>

   It returns a list of the storage devices on the system. For example:

   <p class="pre command-output">/dev/sda</p>

1. Plug in the USB stick on which you want to install Tails.

   <div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

1. Execute again the same command:

   <p class="pre command">ls -1 /dev/sd?</p>

   Your USB stick appears as a new device in the list.

   <p class="pre command-output">/dev/sda
   /dev/sdb</p>

1. Take note of the *device name* of your USB stick.

   In this example, the device name of the USB stick is
   <span class="code">/dev/sdb</span>. Yours might be different.

   <div class="caution">
   <p>If you are unsure about the device name, you should stop proceeding or
   <strong>you risk overwriting any hard disk on the system</strong>.</p>
   </div>

1. Execute the following commands to copy the USB image that you
   downloaded earlier to the USB stick.

   Replace:

   - <span class="command-placeholder">tails.img</span> with the path to the USB image

   - <span class="command-placeholder">device</span> with the device name found in step 5

   <p class="pre command">dd if=<span class="command-placeholder">tails.img</span> of=<span class="command-placeholder">device</span> bs=16M oflag=direct status=progress</p>

   You should get something like this:

   <p class="pre command-example">dd if=/home/user/tails-amd64-3.12.img of=/dev/sdb bs=16M oflag=direct status=progress</p>

   If no error message is returned, Tails is being copied on the USB
   stick. The copy takes some time, generally a few minutes.

   <div class="note">
   <p>If you get a <span class="guilabel">Permission denied</span> error, try
   adding <code>sudo</code> at the beginning of the command:</p>

   <p class="pre command">sudo dd if=<span class="command-placeholder">tails.img</span> of=<span class="command-placeholder">device</span> bs=16M oflag=direct status=progress</p>
   </div>

   The installation is complete after the command prompt reappears.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
