[[!meta title="Bug reporting"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>
So you think you have found a bug in The Amnesic Incognito Live
System, and are willing to tell us about it. Great. Please read-on.
</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

Why you should read this
========================

Simply put, the more effectively you report a bug, the more likely we
are to fix it.

Check if the bug is known
=========================

Have a look to the [[list of known bugs|bugs]] and to the [[list of
bugs that are fixed in our development tree, and will therefore be fixed in the
next shipped release|bugs/pending]].

How to write a useful bug report
================================

Please read at least the _Summary_ section of the great
[How to Report Bugs Effectively](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/bugs.html#summary)

Once you are done, you can eventually [[post|bugs]] your bug report.

Special cases
=============

The Live System does not boot entirely
--------------------------------------

In the graphical boot menu, press `TAB` to add the `debug` parameter
to the boot command line, and remove the `splash` one from there, so
that a bunch of hopefully useful messages are displayed on boot.

Then try to boot again, and append the end of the boot log (or what
seems to be relevant to your problem) to your bug report.

No internet access
------------------

The WhisperBack bug reporting tool (accessed from the Tails desktop)
can of course not send the bug report when there is not internet
access. The following steps can be used as a work-around (Note that
your bug report will not be anonymous unless you take further steps
yourself (e.g. using Tor with a throw-away email account)):

1. In Tails, start the bug reporting tool
2. In the bug report window, expand "technical details to include"
3. Copy everything in the "debugging info" box
4. Paste it to another document (using gedit for instance)
5. Save the document on a USB strick
6. Boot into a system with working networking and send the debugging
info to us.
