The (Amnesic) Incognito Live System and this documentation wiki are
developed in a bunch of Git repositories.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Main repository
===============

This repository contains the T(A)ILS source code and the wiki source.

Anyone can check it out like this:

	git clone git://git.immerda.ch/amnesia.git

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	git clone 'ssh://boum_org_amnesia@webmasters.boum.org/~/wiki.git'

We have a Gitweb available for [the main
repository](http://git.immerda.ch/?p=amnesia.git).

Branches
--------

T(A)ILS development uses several branches modeled a bit like the
Debian development process. Here they are.

### master

The `master` branch is used by the online wiki.

**FIXME**: document what should go in there, when other branches are
merged into it, etc.

### stable

The `stable` branch is intended to contain:

- the state of the code tagged for the last stable release
- fixes for security or important bugs.

Its purpose is to prepare minor releases.

### testing

The `testing` branch is used to prepare an imminent release: at some
point of the development process, the `devel` branch code is merged
into `testing`, freezed, and endures careful testing and bug-fixing
until this branch is considered good enough to become a stable
release. The `testing` branch is then merged into the `stable` and
`master` ones, images built and shipped and we go back to code shiny
new stuff in the `devel` branch.

Please note that the `testing` branch generally has not been granted
the same testing and attention as code that has made it into a
`stable` release: please use it for testing purposes but do not rely
on it for anything. No guarantee, blablabla.

### devel

Most of the development work that is done in T(A)ILS, is done in the
`devel` branch. This branch will never get released; instead, code
from it will be merged into testing and then into a real release.

Please note that the `devel` branch can be broken, have awful security
problems and so on. No guarantee, blablabla.

The `master` branch is merged into `devel` from time to time.

live-boot
=========

Anyone can check it out like this:

	git clone git://git.immerda.ch/tails_live-boot.git

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	git clone 'ssh://git@git.immerda.ch/tails_live-boot.git'

We have a Gitweb available for [our custom
live-boot](http:n//git.immerda.ch/?p=tails_live-boot.git).

live-config
===========

Anyone can check it out like this:

	git clone git://git.immerda.ch/tails_live-config.git

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

We have a Gitweb available or [our custom
live-config](http://git.immerda.ch/?p=tails_live-config.git).

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	git clone 'ssh://git@git.immerda.ch/tails_live-config.git'

Caution!
========

If you want to commit patches that may be published later, you might
want to anonymize them a bit; to do so, run the following commands
in every of your local clones' directories:

	git config user.name T(A)ILS developers
	git config user.email amnesia@boum.org

If you might need to prepare T(A)ILS releases, you'll also need to
make the development team signing key the default one for Git tags:

	git config user.signingkey BE2CD9C1
