[[!toc levels=3]]

# Current holes

## Icedove (Thunderbird) leaks the real IP address

The Torbutton extension installed in amnesia being incompatible with
Icedove (Thunderbird), the real IP address of the computer is
disclosed to the SMTP relay that is used to send e-mail.

### Impact

When using Icedove to send e-mail, the computer's real IP address is
disclosed to the SMTP relay, that usually writes it down to
a `Received:` header inside outgoing e-mail. This private information
is therefore disclosed to:

* the SMTP relay's administrators;
* anyone who is able to read such a sent e-mail, including: anyone the
  e-mail is sent to, various network and e-mail
  servers administrators.

When using a NAT-ed Internet connection, the disclosed IP is a local
network one (e.g. 192.168.1.42), which usually does not reveal too
much. On the other hand, when connecting directly to the Internet,
e.g. using a PPP or DSL modem and no router, the disclosed IP truly
reveals the location of the amnesia user.

### Solution

None yet.

### Mitigation

Best is to avoid using Icedove (Thunderbird) in amnesia until
fixed images are released. If not possible:

* Use amnesia behind a NAT-ed Internet connection, inside a LAN that
  uses widespread IP addresses.
* Use a trustworthy, privacy-friendly SMTP relay that does not write
  down the client's IP address anywhere, especially in e-mail headers.

Note that using GnuPG does not fix this problem at all: GnuPG only
encrypts the e-mail body, the e-mail headers being always kept
in clear.

### Affected versions

Any amnesia release until, and including, 0.3.

# Probable holes

Until an [[audit|todo/applications_audit]] of the bundled network
applications is done, information leakages at the protocol level
should be considered as − at the very least − possible.

# Fixed holes

**WARNING**: some of these holes may only be fixed in [[Git]].
Please carefully read the "Affected versions" sections bellow.

## ineffective firewall-level Tor enforcement

The `openntpd` package is not installed anymore since commit
bf8cc787ce46e9946ab47d5383feb1174da3f22a (20091006). The `ntpd` user
is then non-existent on built amnesia systems.

This user is however mentioned in `/etc/firewall.conf`.
`iptables-restore` being apparently picky about imperfect
configuration files, it refuses to load it, and the firewall-level Tor
enforcement is therefore not effective.

### Impact

Some applications establish direct connections through the Internet,
not using the Tor network at all.

Details:

* iceweasel is not affected, thanks to the torbutton extension
* applications that take into account the relevant environment
  variables (namely `http_proxy`, `HTTP_PROXY`, `SOCKS_SERVER` and
  `SOCKS5_SERVER`) are not affected
* any other application, such as Pidgin or Thunderbird, is probably
  affected.

### Solution

This problem has been fixed in [[Git]] commit 9c425e8de13e6b4f885.

### Affected versions

No released amnesia version is affected.

Custom images built from Git snapshots equal of after
bf8cc787ce46e9946ab47d5383feb1174da3f22a (20091006), and before
9c425e8de13e6b4f885 (excluded), are affected.

## use of cleartext swap partitions on local hard disks

At least until its version 1.157.4-1, `live-initramfs` has
a [bug](http://lists.debian.org/debian-live/2009/09/msg00125.html)
that makes it use any cleartext swap partition found on local
hard disks.

### Impact

Any kind of information about the user's activities can be stored on
the local hard disks of the computers being used with affected
amnesia systems.

### Mitigation of passed effects

It is recommended to securely erase, using a program such as `shred`,
any cleartext Linux swap partition present on computers having been
used with affected amnesia systems.

### Solution

We fixed this hole on 20091006 (commit 00c1ff633e8958d0233) by
installing a custom fixed `live-initramfs` package into built images.

The relevant patch was then
[integrated](http://lists.debian.org/debian-live/2009/10/msg00124.html)
in upstream's Git.

### Affected versions

Releases 0.2-20090815 and 0.2-20090816 are affected, as well as any
custom image built from Git before commit 00c1ff633e8958d0233.
