Have had it on 0.10,too.

Have used it a few times on
toptaskbar ....nothing.

Then click few times 'New Identity' on
toptaskbar, in Browser .....it works.

what

Is this normal?

> Please tell what you are doing, what you expect to happen, and what
> happens instead.

>> * Click 'New Identity' in Vidalia-Icon(toptasbar&in
>>   Browser.).Multiple.I get now new IP(check.torproject.org).

>>> Do you mean you get *no* new IP, that is you get the same IP
>>> as previously?

>>>> Yes,the same IP as previously.The same ExitNode(check.torproj....).

>>>>> I cannot reproduce that.

>>> First of all, a new circuit doesn't necessarily mean a new exit
>>> node.

>>> Also, did you close the web browser between your different
>>> attempts (before / after clicking "New identity")?

>>>> Closing or not closing -no difference

>>> For more explanation about this feature, please see our
>>> [[doc/about/warning]] page, that e.g. explains that Vidalia's "New
>>> Identity" button forces Tor to use new circuits but only for new
>>> connections: existing connections might stay open

>> * After more or less 10 minutes(normal circuit change ?) the 'New
>>   Identity'-function in Vidalia-Icon seems working(a new IP
     according to check.torproject.org).

>>> OK.

>> * Is this function dependent on about:config(delete
>>   URL-entries&JAVA-filelocation-entries)-seems not.

>>> Sorry, I don't understand what you mean.

>>>> Supplement: after this time i always get a new
>>>> IP/ExitNode(according to check.torproje......)after click
>>>> on 'NewIdentity'.

>>>>> What do you mean by "this time"?

>>>>>> approximately 10min.Have not measured it.
>>>>>> If Tails is running some time offline and then go working online 'New
>>>>>> Identity'(new Exit IP) is working ad hoc.Now i'm using Tails so.

>>>>>> Sorry for bad english

>>>>>>> Sounds to me that you believe that if you hit the "New identity" button,
>>>>>>> you'll get a new IP on the internet. But this isn't true, hitting this
>>>>>>> button only means that you'll use a brand new circuit. This new circuit
>>>>>>> might as well use the same exit node than the previous circuit. So
>>>>>>> you'll get the same IP than before for the rest of the internet.
>>>>>>> Or am I missing something?

>>>>>>>> No answer for ~2 months, closing.

[[done]]
