Please ship Tails with the Linux Standard Base (lsb) so that certain printer drivers can be installed.

> Tails 0.11 already ships all dependencies of the LSB 3.2 Printing
> Package, so I'm unsure what you mean. Please clarify. (For the
> record, I've added the `lsb-printing` package to the Tails packages
> list so that this remains true.)

>> In Tails 0.11, dpkg states that lsb is not installed which leads to installation failure.

Otherwise, there is no chance to get those printer drivers started.

> Perhaps you should be more specific about what printer?
> In may experience, Tails supports out-of-the-box most printers I've thrown at it.

>> Tails does not support certain all-in-one printers out-of-the-box. But this is not the problem because the required driver could be added manually if the lsb package were included in Tails.

>>> Sorry, it's unclear to me whether you are guessing or reporting
>>> actual facts. Have you experienced the following with a given
>>> printer:
>>>
>>> - the printer does not work out-of-the-box on Tails 0.11
>>> - pristine Tails 0.11 does not allow installing the required driver
>>> - Tails 0.11, once the `lsb` Debian package is installed, allows
>>>   installing the required driver
>>>
>>> ?
>>>
>>> If you did, then we have to investigate what exact package Tails
>>> lacks. In Debian, `lsb` is a meta-package (ships nothing, only
>>> dependencies), and it depends on stuff we certainly don't want to
>>> install in Tails. On Tails 0.11, `apt-get install lsb` wants to
>>> install:
>>>
>>> 	alien at cups-bsd debhelper dpkg-dev ed exim4 exim4-base
>>> 	exim4-config exim4-daemon-light heirloom-mailx html2text
>>> 	intltool-debian libc-dev-bin libc6-dev libdpkg-perl libelf1
>>> 	libqt3-mt libqt4-gui libqt4-opengl libqt4-sql-sqlite librpm1
>>> 	librpmbuild1 librpmio1 linux-libc-dev lsb lsb-core lsb-cxx
>>> 	lsb-desktop lsb-graphics lsb-release m4 make ncurses-term pax
>>> 	po-debconf rpm rpm-common rpm2cpio time
>>>
>>> ... and it's not obvious to me which one of these packages would
>>> make a difference in the Tails ability to install printer drivers.
>>> The RPM and archive tools, maybe?
>>>
>>> If the above scenario is facts, may you please try to install
>>> these packages one after the other, to see which one makes
>>> a difference regarding the ability to install the required driver
>>> for this printer?

>>>> I will test it and tell you about my experiences.

>>>>> No report so far, closing. Feel free to reopen. [[done]]
