Problem with [[todo/erase_memory_on_shutdown]]: when closing Amnesia
and shutting down, my PC shows rows upon rows of SQUASHFS errors, and
it doesn't seem to stop. I tried to ppress CTRL+C but nothing happens.

What should I do, besides radically unplugging the PC? Any advice
would be most welcome.

> This is a bug that needs to be fixed. In the meanwhile, yes, you can
> unplug the PC.

>> This bug has been fixed along with the
>> [[todo/smem_progress_report]]. Not tagging as `done` or `pending`
>> has this work has neither been merged into our master
>> `live-initramfs` branch yet, nor been integrated into our main repo
>> as a custom `.deb`.

>>> Now in Git =>  pending => done.

>>>> I hate it but we must reopen this bug. The squashfs errors
>>>> strikes back in 0.5 although I'm pretty sure we had got rid of
>>>> them at some point. A solution based on `/dev/shm` might be more
>>>> robust wrt. caching the necessary files. Else the heavy, never
>>>> released Perl version could still be pulled back.

>>>> The current error message (Lenny image built from Git on 20100903)
>>>> is:

	I/O error, dev sr0, sector 43576
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10894
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10895
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10896
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10897
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10898
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10899
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10900
	Buffer I/O error on device sr0, logical block 10901
	SQUASHFS error: squashfs_read_data failed to read block 0x88105b

>>>>> Now that the smem process is pretty quick we could avoid
>>>>> ejecting the CD before erasing the memory => this might be
>>>>> enough to fix this bug.

>>>>>> Fixed by the new kexec-based sdmem system implemented in the
>>>>>> devel branch.

>>>>>> This was tested using [[contribute/release_process/test/erase_memory_on_shutdown]] and
>>>>>> seems to work as expected.

>>>>>>> Removed the pending tag, the new implementation still has a bug : the
>>>>>>> machine isn't rebooted or shutdown after memory wiping. The system
>>>>>>> hangs on the line "Starting new kernel" without any way for the user to
>>>>>>> be sure the memory wiping went fine.

>>>>>>>> I believe we need to move your bug report to a dedicated one,
>>>>>>>> where more information (e.g. hardware, RAM) can be provided:
>>>>>>>> the new system has problem with your test machine, but it
>>>>>>>> generally works. Indeed, it has been shown to be working on a
>>>>>>>> few other test systems. The only bugs we have seen are
>>>>>>>> display corruption on KMS-enabled systems, probably due to
>>>>>>>> failure from the kernel to init the display from a
>>>>>>>> non-fresh-boot graphic mode.

>>>>>>> This might due to the /sbin/halt binary being wiped in memory (as long
>>>>>>> as all the initramfs).

>>>>>>>> I am not sure about it, but I doubt the kernel would let an
>>>>>>>> userspace process wipe the initramfs from the memory.

>>>>>>> This script should at least be able to shutdown the machine or output to
>>>>>>> the user that he/she can power it off when the sdmem process has
>>>>>>> finished, otherwise the user might be lost in front of this freezed
>>>>>>> screen.

>>>>>>>> On the systems that were used for development and testing,
>>>>>>>> the new system does shutdown/reboot the machine accordingly
>>>>>>>> to what the user initially asked. About the need for feedback
>>>>>>>> in case of failure: I do agree it would be nice, but we have
>>>>>>>> to diagnose first *when* your test system is crashing. If -as
>>>>>>>> I suspect- it crashes during early initramfs stages (e.g.
>>>>>>>> graphics initialization) we cannot do anything about it...
>>>>>>>> but fix the crash.

>>>>>>> This might also conflict with the [memory erasement on media removal
>>>>>>> feature|todo/erase_memory_when_the_USB_stick_is_removed], which would
>>>>>>> require to have the machine quicly shutdown.

>>>>>>>> I am sorry not to understand this one.
