I can't get any sound with Tails 0.10.1 on my laptop. It's too low to hear. Had the same problem on my friend's laptop.

> Please use the "report a bug" application from *both* these
> computers so that we get enough information. (Someone already sent
> us a similar bug report over email, but it was lacking much
> necessary information and we had no way to ask for more, so
> unfortunately I deleted it. Maybe another Tails developer could
> resend it?)

Didn't have this issue before 0.10.1 so is it about the linux kernel? (sounds working on Windows 7)

> Can you please confirm Tails **0.10** does not expose this problem?

>> Also, please try with Tails 0.10.2.

>>> It was same on 0.10.2, then I entered Volume Control. The speaker
>>> volume setting was at lowest.

>>>> Ok. Again, may you please use the "report a bug" application to
>>>> provide enough information? Also, using `alsamixer` to tell us
>>>> the *exact* name of the mixer channel that was too low would
>>>> be useful.

>>> Why did you change that, why don't you simply mute the
>>> master volume?

>>>> We did not change anything related to sound volume. The only
>>>> thing that changed recently and I can imagine causing this
>>>> problem is the newer Linux kernel. That's why I asked to confirm
>>>> if 0.10 exposes this problem.

I sent two emails, one over Whisperback, one over an email account. They include technical details and the screenshots.

> Ok, moved to todo, then: [[todo/unmute_Speaker_mixer_channel]]

[[done]]
