Problem: When the RAM disk is full, Tails fails to shutdown correctly
and wipe the memory when the boot device is unplugged.

Reproduction: I encountered the problem with SD flash cards and it
probably also happens with normal USB sticks. Boot Tails from the USB
stick, create a huge file (cat /dev/zero > /home/amnesia/test.dat) and
unplug the stick when cat is finished.

Symptoms: Tails either stays in graphical mode, does not shut down at
all and does not allow the user to run any program, or it shuts down X
but hangs itself up in console mode, printing 'Unable to read page,
block entry ....' or 'Unable to read data cache entry' nonstop. After
a hard reboot, an adversary can copy the RAM contents of the previous
Tails session (normal boot attack).

> 1. Are you *sure* this *only* happens when the RAM is full? If it
>    really does, we could probably ask kexec to load the kernel
>    and ramdisk at boot time rather than at shutdown time to make
>    failure less frequent; anyway, unless we tell the kernel to keep
>    some spare memory that would be reserved for the emergency halt
>    procedure (which I'm not sure we can easily do without diving
>    into cgroups and alike), we have to be prepared for software to
>    behave in weird ways when it is given no memory to do its job.

> It happens also when the RAM is not completely full. I have 1GB RAM on
> the machine I'm currently testing, and when more than about 3/4 of
> the RAM is full the weird behaviour starts - sometimes. When it's
> completely full, the error *always* comes up. I guess adding
> the rest of the required files to memlockd and/or removing GDM
> with SIGKILL could solve the issue. --JohnDoe

> 2. Can you reproduce this by a. filling the memory and b. shutting down
>    Tails "normally" i.e. using the GNOME buttons?

> This always works, except when I fill the home directory and the
> /tmp directory to the limit. Tails freezes in X mode when I do that
> and becomes unresponsive to anything except hard reboot.  --JohnDoe

Probable reason: Virtual filesystem does not keep neccessary files in
memory.

Probable solution: Force squashfs to keep certain files, especially
the shutdown scripts and the files required for kexec, in memory.

--JohnDoe

> Already done using memlockd, see [[memory erasure implementation
> notes|contribute/design/memory_erasure]] for details. Sounds like we
> may have missed a few files, though: `/etc/init.d/gdm3 stop` is
> called by `/usr/local/sbin/udev-watchdog-wrapper` but we lock
> neither this initscript nor the files it itself uses into memory.

>> Do we need to stop gdm using the init-scripts instead of, let's say, kill -9
>> when doing the *emergency* shutdown? --JohnDoe

>>> Tails 0.9 uses pkill and fixes at least that probable cause.
>>> Can anyone still reproduce the bug, or should we close it?

>>>> No reply since about 1 year, closing.

[[done]]
