Good day,

I installed on a 2 GB USB stick Tails 0.9. No problem so far, the stick boots, I can choose the language, GDM3 starts up with a login screen. No luck at all to login. On the command tty I am able to login as root with pwd amnesia. What's wrong with the GUI-Login? Thank's for any help in advance.

> On any properly working Tails, GDM3 is *not* displayed. Please try
> your USB stick on another computer, it's likely to be faulty.
> Or maybe the computer you're trying Tails on has fewer than 512MB
> of RAM?

>> The stick (GMD3) does also not work on other PC's. I verified the
>> iso before installing. I installed from Debian 6.0.3. The stick is
>> ext4 formatted and marked as bootable. Therefore it boots :)
>> I followed the instructions for installing the iso under linux.
>> cat [tails.iso] > [destination] && sync. Where is the difference
>> formatting the stick as fat32? I usually prefer ext3 or ext4.
>> Thank you for your reply. stefan.

>>> First, whatever filesystem you create on the stick before
>>> installing Tails on it is not relevant: the current Tails
>>> installation process (`cat`) *replaces* any existing filesystem.
>>> So let's forget about ext2, ext3, ext4 or FAT32 for the time
>>> being. Marking the stick as bootable is not relevant either.
>>>
>>> However, I'm clueless about the problem you're experiencing.
>>> It's obvious something does not happen on boot, that usually
>>> happens (either the live user creation or the GDM autologin
>>> setup). May you please:
>>>
>>> * try with another USB stick
>>> * paste the output of the following command:
>>>   		grep AutomaticLogin /etc/gdm3/daemon.conf
>>> * paste the output of the following command:
>>>   		ls -l /home

>>>> Lacks needed information, closing.

[[done]]

