###Problem:
The NM dispatched htpdate call fails and the date is never updated.

###Step to reproduce:
1. Boot Tails 0.6-rc1
2. Disconnect from the network.
3. Set the system time to something very wrong.
4. Connect the network.
5. Wait until htpdate "finishes"
6. Verify that the system time still is very wrong and that Tor thus cannot start.

###Analysis:
The following error is spitted out if I run the htpdate call dispatched by NM myself:

    open(, -|, /bin/date, -s, Tue Sep 28 16:15:35 2010): Do not expect to get 5 arguments at (eval 776) line 10.

This refers to line 240 in /usr/local/sbin/htpdate. Pardon my perl, but I don't really understand what the problem is -- I read the open() perl reference page and it seemed very legit to me, and so did the author of this script it seems.

###Fix(?)
In any case, the following patch to fixes it for me at least:

    --- /usr/local/sbin/htpdate.orig 2010-09-28 12:17:09.584346432 -0400
    +++ /usr/local/sbin/htpdate 2010-09-28 12:26:01.653224599 -0400
    @@ -237,12 +237,10 @@
             message(&quot;Setting time to $newtime...&quot;);
             if ($set_date) {
                 $&gt; = 0 if $opt_u;
    -            open(my $fd, &quot;-|&quot;, $datecommand, $dateparam, $newtime);
    +            system($datecommand, $dateparam, $newtime);
                 if ( $? != 0 ) {
    -                my @output = &lt;$fd&gt;;
    -                error &quot;An error occured setting the time\n@output&quot;;
    +                error &quot;An error occured setting the time&quot;;
                 }
    -            close($fd);
                 $&gt; = getpwnam($opt_u) if $opt_u;
             }
         }

This should probably be sent upstream, but it would be good if someone more perl literate than me could take a look at this before so I don't have to embaress myself.

> Fixed => [[done]]. This bug was introduced in our own `htpdate`
> script, and does not affect upstream.
