User-agent reported by current version of Amnesic (ISO
amnesia-i386-0.5-20100501) appears to be non-standard. Iceweasel
config "general.useragent.override" reports user-agent as "Mozilla/5.0
(Windows; U; Windows NT 6.1; chrome://global/locale/intl.properties;
rv:1.9.2.3) Gecko/20100401 Firefox/3.6.3". Surely this should be
something generic like "Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 7.0; Windows NT
6.1)" or a Firefox equivilent?

Should the "chrome://..." be replaced with something else?

I thought that as the Tor Button was being used, its user-agent would
be used (config extensions.torbutton.useragent_override), but this
doesn't appear to be the case.

You can verify this by visiting ifconfig.me or using config:about.

> Thank you for this bug report.
>
> In T(A)ILS 0.5, the default
> `extensions.torbutton.useragent_override` is set to:

    "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 6.1; LANG; rv:1.9.2.3) Gecko/20100401 Firefox/3.6.3"

> in `/usr/share/xul-ext/torbutton/defaults/preferences/preferences.js`.
>
> So it seems like the Torbutton user agent is being used **but** the
d> `LANG` is wrongly replaced. This is caused by our
> `extensions.torbutton.spoof_english` being set to false, which is a
> non-default setting that is probably less tested by the Torbutton
> developers.
>
> We have reported this Torbutton bug in the Debian bug tracking
> system: [[!debbug 595375]].
>
> Git has a patched torbutton that fixes this bug => [[done]].

As a suggestion could the User-Agent-Switcher plugin be used so your
browser profile could be altered during a session, alongside using
TOR's change identify?

> Please file a dedicated wishlist todo item for this one. We will
> discuss it there.
