Java is enabled by default in the browser. That radio button should be unmarked. 

Anonymous mentioned in the irc chat that the tor button should disable java and the browser setting should not matter if the tor button works correct. 

Tested with 0.7.1 and a virtualbox in ubuntu 10.10, no changes made and then i browsed to this page

http://www.stilllistener.com/checkpoint1/Java/

Got this confirmation message (along with screensize etc)
"JavaScript is enabled and working"

> I'm confused. Are you talking of Java or JavaScript? JavaScript is
> indeed enabled by default in Tails. As far as I know, Java is not.
> The checker page you are mentioning confirms both assumptions.
> --intrigeri

>> Javascript, im sorry for the confusion. The problem is that some pages, like the test page i 
>> mentioned, do not seperate the two when it comes to denying access
>> or showing a warning.
>>
>> Why is it on anyway ?
>> http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/javascript-trap.html
>> 
>> DYSW
>>
>>> It used to be off by default + possible to enable it using
>>> NoScript. Most non-technical users simply did *not* realize they
>>> could whitelist the websites that just don't work without
>>> JavaScript. They thought "oh, Tails is broken with this
>>> website"... and moved back to their usual browser. We eventually
>>> decided to enable JS by default, and rely on Torbutton to protect
>>> against the worst scripts could do against Tails users' anonymity
>>> and privacy.
>>>
>>> I'm tagging this bug as [[done]] since the described
>>> behaviour has been enabled on purpose. You're of course welcome to
>>> contribute to our [[discussion about
>>> NoScript|todo/iceweasel_addon_-_NoScript]], possibly on the
>>> tails-dev mailing list, if you feel the need to.

Turned off the java setting in the browser and the java page did not load as before and told me java was OFF. 

For new users that does not test these things before they use tails, this could be a problem, hopefully a solution can be found before next release. 

