USB Flash Kingston DataTraveller 32GB

When trying to create persistens volume.
It starts and after some time (about a minute) error comes.

    Persistence wizard - Persistence volume creation
    
    Failed
    
    org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Did not receive a reply. Possible
    causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message
    bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the
    network connection was broken

After that flash becomes unbootable.

On a 2GB flash drive it's ok. Works fine. Tried different USB ports, stays the
same.

> Looks like udisks (or some other involved entity) has a timeout
> that's too short for our needs here, when huge USB sticks
> are involved.
>
> > It looks like the code already suport asynchronous DBus operations.
> > So either one operation is made synchronous and it should not be, or
> > the timeout for asynchronous operations (240 seconds?) is still
> > too low.

>>> Confirmed. Bumping the timeout to 10 minutes fixes this bug for
>>> one user. Done in tails-persistent-setup Git.

>>>> Not enough for 32 GB. Maybe there is a better fix, or we need to bump
>>>> the timeout again.

>>>>> Wow. 10 minutes not enough to mkfs 32GB. That must be a slow
>>>>> one. I bumped the timeout to 20 minutes in
>>>>> tails-persistence-setup Git.

[[done]]

>>>>>> tails-persistence-setup 0.20 (that will be in Tails 0.14) ships
>>>>>> with a 1h timeout. If this is still not enough, we will have to
>>>>>> look for causes elsewhere.
