When I right-click on the Network icon in the upper right-hand-side of the main menu bar at the top of my display (re: tails-0.7.2-i386.iso release) and disable the Enable Networking checked box, and then subsequently right-click and recheck the box - there is not confirmation that Networking has been re-enabled while my router is live.

The rechecking of the Enable Networking should reestablish a connection (via auto eth0) and a message to that effect should pop up.

This might be a problem with the baseline Debian Squeeze release used to build the TAILS 0.7.2 bug fix release.  The problem was also in release 0.7.1, but I forgot to report it.

> I frequently use this feature and have never seen it failed. Is
> there anything special with your setup? Static network
> configuration? --intrigeri

Nothing special to report about my setup - just straight .iso boot from either Live CD or USB.  I have a FiOS DHCP network connection through a FiOS router which I activate after the Live CD or USB has finished booting and I have made changes to the torrc file and changed the mac address.  I never have problems using this feature say in an Ubuntu Live CD or USB.

I tested it with a ping command after reenabling it, and nothing.  After that I tried using the following commands to reinit the connection:

1) Sequence 1:
$ sudo dhclient -r
$ sudo dhclient

2)) Sequence 2:
$ sudo ifdown eth0
$ sudo ifup eth0
$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

3) Sequence 3:
$ sudo /etc/init.d/network-manager stop
$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking stop

The first time I tried these sequences - none worked (but may have, because I did not try a ping command).

One of the above sequences did regain a connection another time because I followed up with a ping command the time that it worked - however, the normal connection established response did not occur from re-enabling the icon via checking it (with a right-click to display the box to left-click check it).

> Unreproducible so there's not much we can do => closing :/ [[done]]
