IceWeasel, Gedit, and OpenOffice have no spell-check in Tails 0.7.2. Spell-check can be enabled in IceWeasel by installing one of [these dictionaries](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/language-tools/) (if you trust Mozilla and SSL).

#gedit

"Autocheck Spelling" feature highlights *everything*.

Cannot "Set Language"; clicking on it brings up a window prompting to "Select the language of the current document." but there is **nothing to select from**; the box is blank. 

(I have not encountered this problem when using gedit in several other distros (including Debian-used), so I can't imagine it is a bug with gedit itself)

#IceWeasel

The inline spell-checker in IceWeasel did not function at all; *nothing* got highlighted- not even the most obvious, unambiguous errors.

I made sure that "Check my spelling as I type" was checked in preferences.  

It was only after some time of being rather bewildered that I realized that the problem was that **no *dictionary* had been installed** in IceWeasel. I proceeded to install a dictionary, after which the problem appeared to be solved. 

Is there a reason why Tails does not come with any dictionary installed in IceWeasel?

As you can see, this can be quite confusing because IceWeasel gives no warning or indication; one sees "Check my spelling as I type" enabled and can only reasonably expect that IceWeasel will do just that.

#OpenOffice

OpenOffice writer also does not have spell-check. They wants to fingureprint me erors no doubt!

> Now tracked as [[todo/spell-checker]].

[[done]]
