# Description of the bug

Virtual keyboards (at least Onboard and Florence) doesn't work at startup in
squeeze : when trying to use it in azerty, it passes in qwerty when the window
is clicked.

For the record: alternative virtual keyboards are listed and compared on
[[another todo item|todo/virtual_keyboard_in_Debian]].

# Workarounds

## setxkbmap

If one sets the X11 keyboard layout, e.g. using `gnome-keyboard-properties` or
`setxkbmap`, it works.

## Relation with gnome-at-spi

This bug also affects florence if `gnome-at-spi` is not launched.

If one enable gnome accessibility from `preferences` → `accessibility tools`
and then logout and login, then the virtual keyboards work **but** if gdm (and
thus X) is restarted then it doesn't work anymore.

# Faulty X call

Florence is affected by exactly the same bug, so it seems that it's a bug
outside of the virtual keyboard, but rather somewhere in X libs.

It appears that `python-virtkey` function `virtkey_get_current_group_name` in
`/src/python-virtkey.c` returns `USA` instead of `France` when the bug appears.
The wrong value is obtained from the following code (with a lot af more
security checks):

    XkbGetState(display, XkbUseCoreKbd, &state
    state.locked_group
    Atom atom = cvirt->kbd->names->groups[group];
    char * group_name = XGetAtomName(display, atom);

> This might have been fixed in the meantime. Let's check if
> `python-virtkey` or the X libs have been updated since the original
> bug report (Nov 1st 2010), re-test this, and maybe report bugs
> upstream.
>>
>> As of january 2011, it is **not** fixed
>>
>>> We workaround'ed this bug in the devel branch (commit 212032e65ad)
>>> => [[done]] in 0.7.
