Here is Vidalia debug info:
It repeats the following over and over until .onion sites time out. Connecting to any clearnet site through an exit node still works fine. Tried this on tormail, privacybox deepnet .onion, and multiple others. 

Dec 04 02:37:06.329 [Info] connection_ap_handshake_attach_circuit(): pending-join circ 10592 already here, with intro ack. Stalling. (stream 26 sec old)

Dec 04 02:37:07.329 [Debug] circuit_get_open_circ_or_launch(): one on the way!

Dec 04 02:37:07.330 [Info] connection_ap_handshake_attach_circuit(): pending-join circ 10592 already here, with intro ack. Stalling. (stream 27 sec old)

Repeats then:
SOCKS error: TTL expired

> This has now been confirmed. When Tails sets the initial system time through
> [tordate](todo/remove_the_htp_user_firewall_exception), the time can be
> incorrect up to 1.5 hours, but hidden services require a time that is at most
> 0.5 hour incorrect. This also explains the reported frequency of this issue
> occuring.
>
> Tails will set the time much more accurately when htpdate finishes, and
> connecting to hidden services should work just fine then. If the user tries
> to access a hidden service before the time is set, Tor's inability to handle
> clock jumps may render that hidden service inaccessible until Tor is
> restarted. Hence it seems we have to ressurect the htpdate notification we
> had earlier, although with a message urging users to not connecting to
> hidden services just yet. At least as short term solution.
>
> It should also be noted that hidden services running a recent enough Tor
> (>=0.2.3.7-alpha) will not produce this problem, see [[!tor_bug 3460]].
> For instance, `duskgytldkxiuqc6.onion` is not affected and it's known to
> run a sufficiently new Tor.

>> Worked around in Tails 0.10.

[[done]]
