#### TAILS 0.8 

After establishing Tor circuit and automatically starting Iceweasel warning appears in Vidalia Message Log:

* *Basic* <br />
[05:54:14] Potentially Dangerous Connection! - One of your applications established a connection through Tor to "8.8.8.8:53" using a protocol that may leak information about your destination. Please ensure you configure your applications to use only SOCKS4a or SOCKS5 with remote hostname resolution.

* *Advanced* <br />
Sep 26 05:54:14.291 [Warning] Your application (using socks4 to port 53) is giving Tor only an IP address. Applications that do DNS resolves themselves may leak information. Consider using Socks4A (e.g. via privoxy or socat) instead. For more information, please see https://wiki.torproject.org/TheOnionRouter/TorFAQ#SOCKSAndDNS.

> This warning can be safely ignored. The problem the warning is
> hinting at is this: DNS (which uses port 53) can be done both over
> TCP and UDP. Tor only supports TCP, so if the application chooses to
> use UDP for whatever reason, that query may not go through Tor.
> Hence any one monitoring your connection would then see which site
> you're trying to reach, which is really bad. However, in Tails that
> cannot happen becuase of our [[DNS setup|contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/DNS]]
> and [[contribute/design/Tor_enforcement]] in general.

>> Thus closing. [[done]]

EDIT: Sometimes Iceweasel starts automatically with the system, sometimes not but the warning appears irrespective of it.

> This would be a different bug, because it has nothing to do with this.

EDIT#2: OPs were not specific, but for me, on 2 different hardware clients (HP tower & Dell LT), using different circuits, from different ISPs, in Tails 0.8 Tor failed to load (circuit node search timed out) after announcing this error in the Vidalia message log. Tails 0.72 had been running perfectly on the HP. YMMV but for some of us it appears that unedited v0.8 is completely broken...

> This would also be a different bug. Please open a new one and supply
> some more information. However, it may have been related to the
> recent [[issues with one of our time sources|bugs/__34__Clock_is_approx._6_months_after_the_release_date__34___but_it_was_set_correctly]]
> so you might want to retry.
