[[!meta stylesheet="unsafe_browser_warning_style" rel="stylesheet"]]
[[!meta title="Warning! The web browser you are currently using is not
anonymous!"]]

<div id="sorry">
<div>[[!img tor-off.png link="no"]]</div>
<div>Sorry. You are not using Tor.</div>
</div>

You are currently using the Unsafe Browser. As its name suggests, the
Unsafe Browser's network activity is **not anonymous**. If you didn't
already know this, please read [[the Unsafe Browser's
documentation|doc/first_steps/unsafe_browser]] before doing anything
else. If you want a safe, anonymous web browser, please shut this
browser down immediately and start the following web browser instead:

    Applications -> Internet -> Iceweasel

If you want to login to a captive portal to get Internet access (as is
commonly necessary at Internet cafés, libraries, schools and other
public places and businesses), try visiting any web site you know of by
entering its address in the address field above. The web site you
choose should preferably be common to your geographic location in
order to raise less suspicion (good examples of such pages are search
engines, news papers' home pages and similar). Once you've done that
you should be redirected to the login page instead, and once logged in
you should have Internet access so that you can start your anonymous
activity by using **other** applications than the Unsafe Browser.

**Note that the Unsafe Browser is never anonymous, not even after you
have logged in to a captive portal.**
