[[!meta title="Sponsors"]]

Welcome, we're glad to see you interested in becoming a sponsor!
It's thanks to our sponsors' substantial support that we are able to maintain
and improve Tails.

Benefits for sponsors
=====================

<!-- Keep this info in sync with fundraising.git:sponsors/templates/first_email.mdwn. -->

* Your logo will appear in our [[sponsors page|sponsors]].

  Your logo will be in the "Current sponsors" section during 12 months, after
  which we will move it to the "Past sponsors" section.

  Send us your logo as a file, 100 pixels in height, JPG or PNG.

  Sponsors are ranked by amount and reverse chronological order.

* Your homepage will be linked from our sponsors page during 12 months.

  Our website is very well ranked by search engines and
  having your site linked from ours is beneficial for SEO.

  Our sponsors page is linked to from our homepage and donation pages.

* You may advertise your donation to Tails on your website as well as on
  social media.

* You can receive up to 5 Tails T-shirts. We do not sell these T-shirts,
  they are only given out to sponsors and individual donors. If you want
  T-shirts, tell us which sizes:

  - Fit (women): S, M, and L
  - Straight (men): S, M, L, XL, and 2XL.

Become a sponsor
================

To become a sponsor, you must make a monetary or in-kind donation of at
least $1&#8239;000.

In-kind donations can be for hardware, outreach material, and travel
sponsorship.

Your donation might be tax-deductible
=====================================

We have two non-profit fiscal sponsors:

* The Center for Cultivation of Technology, a gGmbH in Germany.
* Riseup Labs, a 501(c)(3) non-profit in the USA.

Please verify with your local fiscal administration which of them
would make your donation tax-deductible.

<!-- /end of syncable information -->

Contact
=======

For detailed information please get in touch with us at <tails-fundraising@boum.org>.
