*This page is kept as an archive. It contains remarks on a prototype that we
already tested and got feedback for. They are not relevant anymore.*

# Design

## Clarify specification

It would help a lot to clarify some areas of the greeter
specification. This may involve revisiting a few past decisions:

* Do we still want the first screen to look like a Windows (NT4)
  login screen?
* Do we still want a second screen for options? Or another way to
  show it?
* Do we want the look to depend on whether the Windows theme was
  opted-in?
* How much do we want to optimize for first-time users?

## Usability study

* Draft several User eXperience (and layout) options
* Make them testable
* Make an usability study:
  - catch testers (Tails users and/or newbies)
  - make them test, see what they do and ask them what they think

We may want to ask input from UX experts, and/or pay one to run the
usability study.

## References

<http://design.canonical.com/2013/08/usability-testing-how-do-we-design-effective-tasks/>

# Prototypes

Some proposals to test!

## Goals

My goals for the interface was:

- read in "natural" order: top to bottom
- no hidden windows/options
- easy to adapt to right-to-left languages RTL
- inspired/similar to GNOME3 "system preferences"

## Screenshots

Please test the script below, which lets you try the user experience!

The greeter started from DVD:

[[!img greeter.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter started from USB with persistence:

[[!img greeter+persistence.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter started from USB with persistence once language selected:

[[!img greeter+persistence+kbd.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the administration password option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-adm.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the keyboard option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-locale.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the windows camouflage option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-persistence.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

## How to test

Download everything in [[tails-greeter: revamp UI/mockups]], or better clone the git, go to the
directory and:

    $ ./mockup.py [-v <variant>] [-p]

Dependencies: gtk3, python gobject introspection (basically debian wheezy)

## Questions

I'd like to hear about:

- your overall impression?
- should keyboard selectable independently from locale in one click?
- your navigation experience?
- where should the locales box be?

(Note that some answers were sent on tails-dev already.)

# Remarks (add yours!)

- add a symbol if option was visited/activated
- activation of presets in persistence: when?

