*This is feedback about the current greeter as shipped in Tails 0.X. They do
not show the current state of design.*

Report #1
---------

User interface is confusing.

The combination of "green/red icons + the check mark + pushed button" is
really hard to grasp.

How about a big push button labeled "Persistence", maybe with an icon?

The current behaviour for "More options?" is also problematic... How about
having a "More options" button at the bottom, near the "Login" button?
Ideally, this would require a "Back" button on the "Administration
password" scren, but even without it, I think the result will be easier
to understand/use.

> How about using checkmark boxes or Yes/No radial dials, or not use
> them at all? Entering a password into a box means it's enabled, and
> leaving it empty implies you don't wish to use the feature. The text
> in my example here is a bit big though:

[[!img menu.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

Report #2
---------

A few impressions after the publication of the screenshots. Great job
by the way!

The buttons ON/OFF are sometime confusing, as it's hard to know if it
reflects the actual configuration, or the ability to modify this
configuration, i.e. if the option is *actually* activated or if
clicking on this button will toggle this option ON. I hope I'm clear
enough :)

Please also keep in mind that some use small screens, and can get
blocked if the cannot see the validation button.

Last point, as I will have to use Tails-greeter *at each boot*,
I would like to be able to handle it easily with the keyboard, to save
a lot of time.

That said, thanks a lot for the great job!

Report #3
---------

Indeed, this is a great polishing of the user interface, at least in
terms of appearance. I failed to download anything from the mockups
page though so be aware that this opinion is based on the screenshots
only

I do have some corrections and suggestions though, from the screenshot
it is apparent that it allows to choose "Portugues" (with a eacute) as
a region/locale, which is not! It is a river and neighborhood in Porto
Rico. "Portugues" (with a ecirc) is the correct word for Portuguese in Portuguese.

Now as for if "Should keyboard selectable independently from locale in
one click?", I would say yes as I use it in the current greeter. I do
this for two reason: First in case my tails session gets owned the
attacker will perhaps not know from which country I am though I am
aware in that situation I probably have far worse problems as far as
de-anonimization goes. And second, I am fluent in English, and
I prefer to see the menus and the documentation in English (as are
more complete). Having to scroll down to get the Portugal keyboard in
the current greeter is quite annoying though and I often wonder why
are the other languages more obscure keyboards (like without dead keys
and etc) before the more default options. Perhaps ordering
alphabetically by languages and after all the defaults keyboards then
again the lesser keyboards in this new greeter? (btw why is Portuguese
absent from the locales screenshots?)

A last, but most important imho suggestion: no matter how ergonomic
you can make the greeter it will always have some usability problems,
but there is a way to minimize this! There is already a todo ticket
for choosing language at installation time ( see:
[[!tails_ticket 5501]])
but then if someone got hold of your tails she/he could see from where
you are and what language you speak. Now, if a new feature in the
greeter was implemented - "Greeter Password" (pass-phrase would be
overkill in this case as usability is preferred) - language, locale,
but also camouflage, read only options for persistence, keyboards and
other options to come in the greeter, could be defined at installation
time and accessed at boot time with a few keystrokes from universal
keys in keyboards. Or perhaps you have two greeter configurations and
could setup two passwords.. If you think this feature could be useful
perhaps you could revamp the greeter with this in mind for a future
version? ;)

Okay that's its :) the overall opinion of the greeter from the
screenshots is that you made an amazing job :-) congratulations and
thanks :-)

Report #4
---------

- The clean, fresh design is nice!

- Is "English" preselected? Hopefully the "English" language option is
  preselected so the most common use case doesn't require an additional click.

  Maybe a little checkmark to the left of the current language could indicate
  this. This would let the user know they can skip past this step without
  clicking anything more if we have already selected the most common option.

- The on/off rocker switch example is confusing. As others have mentioned,
  'off' or 'on' could be interpreted as either the current state or is the action
  to be taken when clicked. A possible alternative would be to use radio buttons
  and add one more option "Default theme" that is the prechecked radio option. I
  would rename the entire panel so just "Camoflage" or "Theme" instead of
  specifically "Windows Camoflage". Doing both of these (using radios and
  renaming the panel) would also allow for adding another theme like OS X by just
  adding a new radio option.

- I might rename "Bridges" to "Tor Bridges" for clarity even on a user's first
  use.

Otherwise looks great.
