[[!meta title="Call for testing: revamped Tails Greeter"]]

[[!meta date="2016-12-03 09:00:00"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first alpha for the revamped <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What is <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is the set of dialogs that
appear after the <span class="application">boot menu</span>, but before the
<span class="application">GNOME Desktop</span> appears.

It lets you choose your language, enable your persistent volume, and
set a number of other options.

# Why a new <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

We had two main reasons to revamp <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>:

* Usability testing has demonstrated that it is not as easy to use as
  we would like, especially for people trying Tails for the
  first time.
* We have pushed the old interface to its limits; it cannot
  accommodate the options we would like to add to it.

# What is new in the revamped <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

Nearly everything you can see has changed! We have been working for
more than two years with designers to make <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span> easier to use.

# How to test the revamped <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

**Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We did not carefully test
it so it is not guaranteed to provide any security or anonymity.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

## Download and install

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool"
href="https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_feature-8230-greeter-revamp-phase1/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/">experimental
Tails ISO image including the revamped <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span></a>

<div class="bug">

<p>
You cannot install this ISO image from Tails 2.x. It is impossible
as well to upgrade to this ISO image from Tails 2.x. So, either
install or upgrade from a non-Tails system, or start this ISO image
from DVD and then clone it to a USB stick.
</p>

</div>

To install this ISO image, follow our usual [[installation instructions|install]],
skipping the **Download and verify** step.

## What to test

<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> should show up after Tails boot:

[[!img greeter-alpha.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Revamped Tails Greeter
alpha screenshot"]]

Don't hesitate to test all kinds of options, and ensure they are taken into account in
the Tails session.

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

# Known issues in the revamped <span class="application">Tails Greeter</a>

* <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is not translated in
  many languages yet.
