[[!meta title="MAC address anonymization"]]

[[!toc]]

<a id="what-is-mac-address"></a>

What is a MAC address?
======================

Every network interface — wired or Wi-Fi — has a [[!wikipedia MAC address]], which is
a serial number assigned to each interface at the factory by the vendor. MAC addresses
are used on the local network to identify the communications of each network
interface.

While your IP address identifies where you are on the Internet, your MAC address
identifies which device you are using on the local network. MAC addresses are
only useful on the local network and are not sent over the Internet.

Having such a unique identifier used on the local network can harm your privacy.
Here are two examples:

1. If you use your laptop to connect to several Wi-Fi networks, the
same MAC address of your Wi-Fi interface is used on all those local networks. Someone
observing those networks can recognize your MAC address and **track your
geographical location**.

1. Unless you choose to [[hide that you are connecting to the Tor
network|anonymous_internet/tor]], someone who monitors your Internet
connection can know that. In this case, your MAC address can **reveal that you are
a Tor user**.

What is MAC address anonymization?
==================================

When MAC address anonymization is enabled, Tails temporarily changes the MAC addresses of your network interfaces to random
values for the time of your Tails session.
MAC address anonymization hides the serial number of your network interface,
and so, to some extent, who you are, from the local network.

MAC address anonymization is enabled by default in Tails because it is usually
beneficial. But in some situations it might also lead to connectivity problems
or make your network activity look suspicious. This documentation explains
whether to use MAC address anonymization or not, depending on your situation.

When to keep MAC address anonymization enabled
==============================================

**MAC address anonymization is enabled by default for all network interfaces.** This is
usually beneficial, even if you don't want to hide your geographical location.

Here are a few examples:

* **Using your own computer on an public network without registration**, for
  example a free Wi-Fi service in a restaurant where you don't need to register with your
  identity. In this case, MAC address anonymization hides the fact that your computer
  is connected to this network.

* **Using your own computer on a network that you use frequently**, for example
  at a friend's place, at work, at university, etc. You already have a strong
  relationship with this place but MAC address anonymization hides the fact that your
  computer is connected to this network *at a particular time*. It also hides
  the fact that *you* are connecting to the Tor network on this network.

When to disable MAC address anonymization
=========================================

In some situations MAC address anonymization is not useful but can instead be
problematic. In such cases, you might want to disable MAC address
anonymization as instructed below.

Note that even if MAC address anonymization is disabled, your anonymity on the Internet is
preserved:

  - An adversary on the local network can only see encrypted connections to the
    Tor network.
  - Your MAC address is not sent over the Internet to the websites that you are
    visiting.

However, as [[discussed above|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/mac_spoofing#what-is-mac-address]], disabling MAC address anonymization makes it possible
for someone to track your geographical location. If this is problematic, consider
using a different network interface, like a [[USB Wi-Fi adapter|doc/anonymous_internet/networkmanager#wi-fi-adapters]], or moving to another network.

Here are a few examples:

- **Using a public computer**, for example in an Internet café or a library.
  This computer is regularly used on this local network, and its MAC address is
  not associated with your identity. In this case, MAC address anonymization can make
  it impossible to connect. It can even **look suspicious** to the network
  administrators to see an unknown MAC address being used on that network.

- On some network interfaces, **MAC address anonymization is impossible** due to
  limitations in the hardware or in Linux. Tails temporarily disables such
  network interfaces. You might disable MAC address anonymization to be able to use them.

- Some networks **only allow connections from a list of authorized MAC
  addresses**. In this case, MAC address anonymization makes it impossible to connect
  to such networks. If you were granted access to such network in the past, then
  MAC address anonymization might prevent you from connecting.

- **Using your own computer at home**. Your identity and the MAC address of your
  computer are already associated to this local network, so MAC address anonymization
  is probably useless. But if access to your local network is restricted based
  on MAC addresses it might be impossible to connect with an anonymized MAC address.

<a id="disable"></a>

Disable MAC address anonymization
=================================

You can disable MAC address anonymization from the [[Welcome
Screen|welcome_screen]]:

1. When the Welcome Screen appears, click on the
   **[[!img lib/list-add.png alt="Add Additional Setting" class="symbolic" link="no"]]** button.

   [[!img additional.png link="no" alt=""]]

2. Choose **MAC Address Anonymization** in the **Additional Settings** dialog.

3. Select the <span class="guilabel">Don't anonymize MAC addresses</span> option.

Other considerations
====================

- Other means of surveillance can reveal your geographical location: video
  surveillance, mobile phone activity, credit card transactions, social
  interactions, etc.

- While using Wi-Fi, anybody within range of your Wi-Fi interface can
  see your MAC address, even without being connected to the same Wi-Fi
  access point.

- When using mobile phone connectivity, such as 3G or GSM, the identifier of
  your SIM card (IMSI) and the serial number of your phone (IMEI) are always
  revealed to the mobile phone operator.

- Some [[!wikipedia captive portals]] might send your MAC address over the
  Internet to their authentication servers. This should not affect your decision
  regarding MAC address anonymization. If you decide to disable MAC address anonymization
  your computer can already be identified by your ISP.
