[[!meta title="About Javascript on our website"]]

During the monthly meeting of [[April
2014|contribute/meetings/201404#local_homepage]] ([[!tails_ticket 7023]]) we
mentioned the idea of not having any JavaScript on our homepage, and by
extension, the fact that we should try to limit the amount of JavaScript
on our website in general. But this discussion was not fully concluded.
Here are a few elements to try to summarize our position:

Cons:

  - JavaScript can be dangerous for security and privacy. Tor Browser is
    supposed to block all JavaScript that might harm anonymity.
    But some of the JavaScript allowed by Tor Browser can still be dangerous.
  - An important part of our audience wants to be careful about
    JavaScript, for the reason mentioned above, and might disable it
    fully. To support this use case, we include the NoScript extension.
    So, to be coherent with this, every part of our website must be
    functional without JavaScript. This also ensures compatibility with
    all the levels of the security slider of Tor Browser ([[!tor_bug
    9387]]).
  - We don't know much about JavaScript ourselves, and even less about
    JavaScript security. So writing JavaScript seems complicated,
    costly, and error prone. Reusing JavaScript libraries like jQuery
    looks more feasible without taking much risks.

Pros:

  - We are already using JavaScript on our website (see the toggle on
    the old download page).
  - JavaScript might allow us to present better our information to some
    users and improve the experience of navigating on our website.
    But using it to save us a bit of work or look cool might
    not be a good enough reason.

Conclusion:

  - We use JavaScript to the minimum while always ensuring graceful
    degradation.
