[[!meta title="Configuration of the production website"]]

Whenever you work on our website or documentation, you may need to
modify our ikiwiki configuration. You need to do so in three different
places:

 - The [[!tails_gitweb ikiwiki.setup]] configuration file that lives
   in our main Git repository is used primarily for building the
   offline copy of the website that is included in every Tails
   release.

 - The [[!tails_gitweb ikiwiki-cgi.setup]] configuration file, that
   lives in our main Git repository too, is used for testing with
   a local web server how our website will look like in the
   production environment.

 - Our live, [production website](https://tails.boum.org/) uses its
   own configuration file which is managed differently.

These configuration files must be updated in a coordinated way,
otherwise one can easily break our production website. Here is how to
do so:

1. When submitting a topic branch with website changes that require
   ikiwiki configuration changes:
   - Apply these configuration changes to `ikiwiki.setup` and
     `ikiwiki-cgi.setup` and include them in your topic branch.
   - Make it clear to the reviewer that merging your topic branch must
     be coordinated with
     [[contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins]].

2. `git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/puppet-tails` and apply the
   same changes to the ikiwiki configuration used by our production
   website:
   - <https://git-tails.immerda.ch/puppet-tails/tree/templates/website/ikiwiki.setup.erb>
   - <https://git-tails.immerda.ch/puppet-tails/tree/manifests/website/params.pp>

3. Submit these production website configuration changes to the
   [[sysadmins team|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins]],
   either in the form of Git patches prepared with
   `git-format-patch(1)` or as a topic branch. Make it clear that
   applying these changes must be coordinated with the person who is
   responsible for merging the other topic branch that you've proposed
   for the main Tails Git repository.
