[[!meta title="Backups of the persistent volume"]]

[[!toc  levels=2]]

We want to allow our users to backup the data they have in their
Persistence. USB sticks are fragile and small, they break and get lost.
We also had bugs in Tails that led to the (apparent) loss of this data
([[!tails_ticket 10976]] and broken upgrades).

We benchmarked [[tons of existing backup solutions in
Linux|backups#archive]] and the situation is pretty poor.

On top of that, the data in Persistence contains both files owned by the
`amnesia` users but also data that is owned by `root` (eg. the Wi-Fi
passwords in *nm-system-connections* or the configuration itself in
*persistence.conf*). This mix of Unix users and permissions make it
harder to find a solution that work out of the box. See also the *Full*
goal below.

So, as a start, let's focus on this user scenario and solve it as good
and cheaply as possible:

<strong>S1: As a Tails user, I want to create another Tails with all my
data so that I can recover from a lost or broken Tails.</strong>

Other user scenarios are possible for backups but I propose to ignore
them for now. For example:

- S2: My house burns down and I loose all my devices.
- S3: I want to cross a border with no data on me.
- S4: I want to recover file that I had some months ago.

As the bare minimum for S1, I need a backup that is:

- **Fresh**. If backups are tedious and slow to make and update, people
  will only update them infrequently and won't have fresh backups when
  they need it. We should make it as easy as possible to update backups.

  Deja Dup is interesting in this regard: as a user, I am notified to
  update my backups regularly and backups start automatically and in the
  background as soon as I plug my backup device.

- **Offline**. Online backups can be useful in different scenarios (S2
  and S3) but they are also slower to restore and more complicated to
  design as they depend on the kind of cloud or online storage solution
  the user has access to.

Ideally, the backup for S1 should also be:

- **Fast and simple**. As a user, I might be panicking because I think
  that seem to have lost all my data and any extra hoop that I will have
  to jump through can add to that panic.

- **Full**. The data stored in Persistence but that is not owned by the
  `amnesia` user might not be super critical to loose (eg. Wi-Fi
  passwords) but providing a full backup that deals with all the data,
  independently of its Unix user, goes along with the goal of being
  *Fast and simple*.

Clone Persistence in Tails Installer
====================================

Backup scenarios have 3 experiences:

- Creation
- Update
- Recovery

Recovery
--------

In the case of S1, being able to use Tails again with all my data after
my USB stick breaks.

The easiest possible recovery scenario for S1 is to *already* have all
my data in another Tails, my "backup Tails". If I loose my Tails, I can
start using my backup Tails right away.

### Better UX

To prevent people from confusing their current Tails with their backup
Tails, the backup Tails could be aware that it is a backup Tails and
display some warning when first started. Otherwise, changes made on
the backup Tails would be overwritten when the backup is updated.

Implementation note:

- This could be a flag stored in the backup Persistence and that
  triggers a warning when opened in Tails Greeter.

Creation
--------

The creation experience could be to clone my Tails using *Tails
Installer* and choose to also clone the Persistence.

If the backup USB stick is new, Tails is installed and the Persistence
is copied. If the backup USB stick already has Tails installed, both the
Tails system on it and the backup of my Persistence are updated.

Before the backup Persistence is being created, the user is prompted for
a passphrase to create the LUKS volume of the backup Persistence.

Implementation note:

- It might be possible to reuse the same LUKS header to create the
  backup Persistence without prompting for a passphrase.

  At first glance:

  * To create the backup Persistence,
    <span class="command">cryptsetup luksHeaderBackup/luksHeaderRestore</span> should work.
  * To unlock the backup Persistence,
    <span class="command">sudo dmsetup table --showkeys TailsData_unlocked</span> should dump the master key from memory and
    <span class="command">cryptsetup --master-key-file</span> should unlock with the master key.

Update
------

The action of updating the backups regularly (and maybe being reminded
to do so). In the backend it could use rsync to only copy the files that
have changed.

Before the backup Persistence is being updated, the user is prompted for
a passphrase.

Updating also updates the system partition of the backup Tails.

Implementation notes:

- We want to operate at the file system level to speed things up.  We
  need a tool that allows copying EVERYTHING from the file system (ACL,
  extended attributes, etc.).

  See [anarcat: rsync oneliner: a study of a complex
  commandline](https://anarc.at/blog/2019-07-07-rsync-oneliner/) on how
  to do that with rsync.

- We have to make sure that applications that could be problematic if
  backed up while running are shut down (eg. Thunderbird) while not
  bothering the user for others (eg. NetworkManager).

### Better UX

The update experience could be improved, like Deja Dup does, by:

- Displaying automatic reminders

- Starting the update automatically when the backup Tails is plugged in.

Discussion
----------

### Pros

- Maybe the fastest and simplest recovery experience possible.

- The creation experience is pretty simple as well: all I need is a USB
  stick that is as big as my current Tails and it will fit all my data.
  Tails Installer don't have to display more options.

- The same experience can be used to migrate to a bigger or faster USB
  stick. ([[!tails_ticket #14624]])

### Cons

- It won't solve any of the other scenarios. Building backup logic into
  Tails Installer might also not be a good investment in case we want to
  solve the others scenarios later on in the future. For example, the
  recovery experiences for each of S2, S3, and S4 would be completely
  different.

Future
======

Once we have a solid solution for S1, we might able to reuse some of
it's UX and code to solve scenarios S2, S3, and S4.

They would require:

- Remote storage
- Backup history
- Include and exclude lists

We should keep these in mind while solving S1 and find a sweet spot
between solving S1 and building foundations to support other backups
scenarios in the future.

User research
=============

Vietnam
-------

From [Understanding Internet Freedom: Vietnam's Digital
Activists](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/if_vietnam_v1.1.pdf)
by *SecondMuse*:

- Bloggers are more focused on mitigating risk around the storage of
  data rather than the transmission of that data. All of the bloggers
  have experienced harassment or arrest by police and security
  officials, and many of them have had their devices taken away as a
  result. They view the confiscation of devices as the highest point of
  risk associated with their work.

- Tool security design must assume the likelihood of a device being
  confiscated by authorities as an essential part of the threat model.
  Physical devices are commonly confiscated by authorities, and bloggers
  have widely cited the risks posed by confiscation due to the
  information they keep on their devices. Carefully consider this aspect
  of the threat model when designing security features for a tool.

- Protection of devices and hardware: The bloggers were unanimously
  concerned about the possibility that arrest might result in the
  confiscation of their computers or mobile devices, making any
  information saved on those devices vulnerable.  Notwithstanding, only
  a few bloggers mentioned behaviors addressing this potential
  vulnerability, including [...]. Just one blogger discussed putting
  sensitive information on an encrypted hard disk that he stored in a
  safe place.

From [Understanding Internet Freedom: Tunisia's Journalists and
Bloggers](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/if_tunis_low-Final.pdf):

- Backing up documents to protect the data and themselves: Preventing
  data loss was one primary motivation for backing up information, and
  particularly sensitive documents. One group of journalists also
  highlighted the practice of making physical copies of sensitive
  documents and keeping them in many different places. In presenting
  their security strategy for a blogger releasing sensitive information,
  that group emphasized “contacting other acquaintances to [let them]
  know that if anything happens to the blogger, they will be publishing
  [the information] all over the internet and making a big scandal.”

Archive of the tests of existing backup solutions
=================================================

[[!toggle id="archive" text="Archive the tests of existing backup solutions done until 2019"]]

[[!toggleable id="archive" text="""

GNOME Backups (Deja Dup)
------------------------

  - <https://launchpad.net/deja-dup>
  - <https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/DejaDup>

Pros:

  - Has a simple interface for configuring backups. The nicest we could
    find and with a [clear mission statment](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/DejaDup/Mission).
  - Restoration of single files or folders is integrated in Files.
  - Notifications to start backups periodically.
  - Supports different kinds of remote: FTP, SSH, WebDAV, and Windows
    share are displayed in the graphical interface, duplicity supports
    [many more](http://duplicity.nongnu.org/).

Cons:

- Uses duplicity as back end with the following drawbacks:
  - It forces full backups now and then, making them unexpectedly
    extremelly slower than regular incremental ones.
  - Restoring a single file is slow.
  - Impossible to navigate the file system, either of the last or past
    increments without doing a full restoration.
- No feedback whatsoever on the progress of the backup when they get started automatically.
- Doesn't know how to ask for root password for backing up files it cannot access.
- If files are mounted or linked in a different place, you can only
  restore from Nautilus the original places backed up by Deja Dup. That's
  a problem for dotfiles which are single files symlinked to $HOME and you
  can't easily get both the Nautilus integration and the full restoration.
- You can only add folders to be backed up or ignored by Deja-Dup (and not single files).
- Fails to restore symlinks.

See [[!tails_ticket 9888]].

Tar + GPG
---------

A simple approach might be to combine tar and GPG:

    tar cjf - . | gpg --cipher-algo AES -c - > /home/amnesia/YYYY-MM-DD-backup.tbz2.gpg

Initial implementation might be easy but that will probably end up being quite a
big piece of custom code.

Duplicity
---------

<http://duplicity.nongnu.org/>

It supports something that's basically "tar | gpg" for the first iteration, and
it also leaves room for future improvements, thanks to its support for
incremental and remote backups. Also, it allows users to restore or inspect
their backups outside of Tails, without having to manually decipher yet another
backup file format.

### Cons

- Duplicity creates tons of messy files on the file system.
- And requires users to do a full backup from time to time when using incremental backups

Loopback LUKS
-------------

### Pros

- One file per backup.

### Cons

- We still need to find another tool to create the device and copy the files.
- Maybe backups done this way would be much bigger than duplicity backups.
- Duplicity supports incremental backups even if they have some limitations.

Obnam
-----

Obnam only supports encrypting to a GnuPG key, so this would require another
layer of encryption (such as a LUKS container file, or something else) if we
want to support encrypting with a passphrase (and I think we should).

grsync + encrypted device
-------------------------

[grsync](http://www.opbyte.it/grsync/) is a GUI for the renown and rock-solid `rsync`, already shipped in Tails.

Grsync is [packaged for debian](https://packages.debian.org/squeeze/grsync).

The documentation for the creation of the encrypted device [[is already written|doc/encryption_and_privacy/encrypted_volumes]].

It has a rock-science interface, basically displaying the complexity of
the command line options in a graphical way.

### How to test?

* create an encrypted device.
* install the grsync package.
* paste [those lines](https://paste.debian-facile.org/view/raw/a7a7fe3c) in a `.grsync` file, then double-click on it.
(grsync ask you first to confirm the profile you want to use. Just click on "Open")
* define the destination (i.e your encrypted device)
* test wildly! and please report your results

### Pros

* not that much things to code
* grsync can be easily preconfigurated, eventually with multiple profiles
* this solution separates backup and encryption work
* allows remote backups

### Features to request

* grsync should check if enough space is available on the destination before running.
  Update: rsync 3.1.0 [introduces](https://rsync.samba.org/ftp/rsync/src/rsync-3.1.0-NEWS) a `--preallocate` option.
  <del>(Tails actually ships rsync 3.0.9</del> Tails 2.6 ships rsync 3.1.1)
* grsync should ask for confirmation when the option "Delete on the destination" is activated
* when user double-click on a `.grsync` file, a window appears to confirm which file to open. This may be confusing.

### Misc

* some files are normally not readable by rsync (for example `persistence.conf`, `apt/*`)
  Grsync can bypass that with the option "Run as superuser", we should investigate the consequences of using such an option.
  We still have the possibility to ignore those files: we just have then to add `--exclude="apt"` in the preconfiguration file.
* decide if we activate the option `--delete` by default.
* test restoration (see File → Invert source and destination). Then, at least, check files permissions.
* test backup + restoration with symlinks and hardlinks in the Persistent folder.
* eventually test remote backups.
* see the [thread on tails-dev](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2015-January/007931.html)

rdup
----

<https://github.com/miekg/rdup>

rdup separates the logic of backing up from the actual copying. It
supports filters to compress and encrypt individual files (typically
using gpg or mcrypt) as well as path names and can do both full as
well as incremental backups.

### Pros

* simple and small command line programs
* more sophisticated than tar+gpg and probably addresses many of the
  corner cases that would otherwise have to be handled by increasingly
  complicated scripts
* in Debian Squeeze / Wheezy / testing

### Cons

* still requires a script of some sort to drive it
* probably requires a gui to make it simple to use

borgbackup
----------

<https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html>

Borg is the perfect backup back end. It supports increments, encryption,
data deduplication, local and remote backups, and mounting backups as
FUSE file systems. And it way faster than obnam which advertises similar
properties. But it doesn't have a graphical user interface.

[Packages](https://packages.debian.org/search?suite=all&arch=i386&searchon=names&keywords=borgbackup) for borgbackup are in Jessie Backports and in Strech

restic
-------

<https://restic.github.io/>

Ristic looks very similar to borgbackup. It is a small CLI tool for incremental, authenticated, and confidential backups of files.

It is not clear where the tools differ and it would be nice to have a comparison of both tools.

[Packages](https://packages.debian.org/search?suite=all&section=all&arch=i386&searchon=names&keywords=restic) are for restic are in Strech.

Duplicati
---------

- Mono application (.NET).
- Unofficial Debian package. I found no reference to "duplicati" on bugs.debian.org.
- The client side has both:
  - a command-line interface
  - a web server interface running on localhost:8200:
    https://duplicati.readthedocs.io/en/latest/03-using-the-graphical-user-interface/.
    I could pierce a hole in our firewall to access this from Firefox
    ESR in Tails but then I couldn't make it connect to an SSH server.
    I'm not sure how this would integrate with Tails in general but it
    doesn't seem the right user interface for our users.
- Backend supports for many types of remote storage: https://duplicati.readthedocs.io/en/latest/05-storage-providers/.
- Backend supports incremental backups and deduplication.
- I didn't manage to make the SSH backend work from the command line
  (tried `torsocks`) but while doing so I can see in Onion Circuits that
  Duplicati is calling back home in several ways: checking for update
  and reporting usage stats.

spideroak
---------

[SpiderOak](https://spideroak.com/) is a commercial online encrypted
backup service. Reading their website might be useful for the user
research part of this project.

Script by a2
------------

- [[Duplicate.desktop]]
- [[duplicate.bash]]

Other solutions
---------------

  - [sbackup](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/sbackup), Simple Backup:
    unmaintained since 2008.

  - [Lucky Backup](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/luckybackup): seems
    very oldish and not really active.

  - [Back In Time](https://github.com/bit-team/backintime) which has a
    GNOME frontend. It does snapshots with hardlinks to reduce space.
    Can do local and SSH as remote.

"""]]
