[[!meta title="DAVE 2"]]

Parent ticket: [[!tails_ticket 12328 desc="DAVE 2: Migrate to Web Extensions and support Chrome"]]

[[!toc]]

Scope
=====

With the port to Web Extension, we are:

- Moving the download outside of DAVE
- Adding a Chrome extension

Relevant threads:

- [Initial discussion on tails-ux](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-ux/2017-May/thread.html)
- [Decision on moving the download outside of DAVE](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-ux/2017-June/003394.html)

Goals:

- Prevent people from using unverified ISO images.
  - Proposed solution: Split the download in a different step and adjust
    the "Next" link to what the user is doing on the page to discourage
    (but still make it possible) skipping the verification.
- Encourage BitTorrent download when DAVE is not supported.
  - Proposed solution: Explain better the benefits of BitTorrent and how
    to use it.
- Make it easier to do a direct download for power users who do OpenPGP.
  - Proposed solution: Have a "Direct download" button and embed the
    OpenPGP instructions on the same page.

Variations
==========

- 2 download techniques:
  - Direct download
  - BitTorrent download

- 3 verification techniques:
  - Browser add-on (Firefox, Chrome, or Tor Browser)
  - BitTorrent
  - OpenPGP (either on top of instead of the two others)

- 6 variations of the same screen depending on the browser:
  - Supported browser but no DAVE
  - Supported browser and DAVE already
  - Supported browser but outdated DAVE
  - Supported but outdated browser (eg. Firefox < 38)
  - Unsupported browser (eg. Internet Explorer)
  - Browser without JavaScript

External resources
==================

- Market shares of browsers:
  - [Kleiner Perkins: 2017 Internet trends](http://www.kpcb.com/internet-trends)
- Browser detection code by Firefox (support.mozilla.org)

Wireframes
==========

Made with [*WireframeSketcher*](http://wireframesketcher.com/) which is
proprietary but has a Debian package that works on Tails :)

### Screens

- [[supported_browser.screen]]: Supported browser but no DAVE
- [[unsupported_browser.screen]]: Unsupported browser (eg. Internet Explorer)
- [[outdated_browser.screen]]: Supported but outdated browser (eg. Firefox < 38)
- [[no_JS.screen]]: Browser without JavaScript
- Moving parts (to be used to simulate interactivity during paper prototyping):
  - [[moving_parts_1.screen]]
  - [[moving_parts_2.screen]]
- OpenPGP instructions (to be displayed on all screens when scrolling):
  - [[OpenPGP_1.screen]]
  - [[OpenPGP_2.screen]]
  - [[OpenPGP_3.screen]]
  - [[OpenPGP_4.screen]]

### Assets

[[!map pages="blueprint/DAVE_2/assets/*"]]
