Corresponding ticket: [[!tails_ticket 8616]], that's a blocker for [[!tails_ticket 8617]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

Initial design
==============

## When do we delete merged Git branches?

After a new Tails release has been shipped, we should review which Git branches
has been merged in the release and remove them accordingly. This will make sure
that we keep a clean-ish Git repository for a new release cycle.

## Deleting obsolete Git branches

What we call an *obsolete* Git branch here is one that has been merged into
`master` already.

It's _not_ the same as an old, stalled branch: an old branch may not have been
merged, it could've been around for longer then 6 months or even a year, the
work might never be done but we will consider it a WIP branch and will thus not
be deleted.

After a Git branch has been merged and we discover that it introduces
a regression, the cleanest way would be to work on a resolution in a *new* Git
branch, and not reuse the old Git branch. Hence, we consider it safe to delete
branches that were already merged.

### Exception: branches created just to get an APT suite

Given how our [[contribute/APT_repository]] currently works, we sometimes push
Git branches merely to have an APT suite created, and be able to upload Debian
packages to it. Such a branch will look like it has been merged (it has no
commit on top of current `master`), but still it should not be deleted:
otherwise, our reprepro will remove the corresponding APT suite from its
configuration; the APT suite indices and packages will stay around, but when one
resumes work on this branch and pushes it again, then reprepro will most
probably either bail out (and cause additional work for our sysadmins), or just
create an empty APT suite (and then the packages previously uploaded to this APT
suite won't be part of it anymore, causing additional work for the developer).

So, on the short-term, the person who deletes Git branches should manually scan
the list of candidates for deletion, and avoid deleting branches that 1.
were created merely to get an APT branch; and 2. were actually not merged yet.
Of course that's a bit painful and error-prone.

Longer term, if/once we have each branch contain a config file with the list of
APT suites that shall be used (as mentioned on [[!tails_ticket 8654]]), then for
each branch that is a candidate for deletion we can:

1. Check if that APT suite list file, in that branch, contains anything but
   a base branch's APT suite. If it doesn't then it can be deleted. Otherwise,
   go on:
2. Check each listed non-base APT suite for packages that either are not in some
   base branch (XXX: which one?) at all, or are newer than the version in some
   base branch (XXX: which one?). If such packages are found, then drop this
   branch from the list of candidates for deletion, on the grounds that its APT
   suite has work that hasn't been merged.

Mid-term, we could do the check from step 2 above on the APT suite that
corresponds to each branch we're going to delete. It's going to be sub-optimal,
as most branches don't introduce Debian packages, but it would probably be good
enough, and the code will be reusable for the long-term solution anyway.

## Who does delete these Git branches?

Ideally, the one who deletes them has access to push to the official Git
repository. If we would chose for having the release manager do this, it can be
done post-release and it wouldn't require people from the sysadmin team to step
in and issue a command.

## What kind of privileges are required to do that?

Push access to the official main Git repository.

So far, only humans have write access there and we would like to not replace
them with robots yet. That is for the future (e.g. the system that hosts our APT
repository already has privileges akin to Git commit rights).
