[[!meta title="Donation campaign for 2016"]]

We are preparing here possible blog posts for the [[!tails_ticket 9855
desc="donation campaign of 2016"]].

Here are the ideas we had were we initially drafted the plan. The
splitting and structure of the different posts is unclear but we should
cover more or less:

1. Launching and explaining the campaign
   - Explain our budget and what we use the money for
   - Explain why donations are important to remain independent
   - Explain again why Tails comes for free
1. Recap all the great things we did since the last donation campaign
1. Reuse the old post about who you are helping when donating to Tails
1. Explain our roadmap
1. Thank you!

Regarding the writing style, I would stay we should be:

  - Short but not too much. Something you can read in 2 minutes, some
    300 words, etc.

  - Make people understand better our work, how we function, and why we
    need this money (instead of asking for it for charity). This implies
    being informative and backing up our words with facts and figures
    (budget, past achievements, etc.)

  - Cross-reference previous blog posts in the campaign.

  - Try to be visual (graphics, screenshots, photos, etc.).

  - Maybe include template for tweets.

[[!toc]]

Why we need donations
=====================

Today we are starting a donation campaign to fund our work in 2017.

Unlike most other tools on the Internet, Tails comes for *free* as in
*freedom*. We are not selling your data, sending you targeted advertising, or
will ever sell our project to a big company. We give out Tails for free because
we believe that the Internet would be a better place without surveillance and
censorship. But also because being free software is a necessary requirement for
our tools to be safe, and protect you as intended. If our source code was
closed, their would be no way of actually verifying that our software is
trustworthy.

So even if we wanted to, we could not sell Tails. And that's amazing.

[[Since 2014|doc/about/finances]], we raised 210'000€ on average each year, coming from:

  - People like you
  - Private companies like Mozilla or DuckDuckGo
  - Foundations and NGOs like Hivos and Access Now
  - Entities related to the US government like the Open Technology Fund (OTF)
    or the National Democratic Institute (NDI)

[[!img income.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Related to US government: 34%, Foundations & NGOs: 34%, Individuals: 17%, Companies: 15%"]]

We often hear complaints about the fact that many
software projects that are meant to fight surveillance, like Tor and
Tails, get a lot of funding from the US government whose own surveillance
projects are severely criticized. We completely share this concern and
we will worry about our accountability and sustainability as long as the
survival of our project depends on a few small grants, some of them coming from
organizations linked to governments.

Now, we would like you to think about it: where should our funding come from?

The answer is clear for us: the survival of Tails should be guaranteed by our
users themselves, so that in return, we can continue to use our money in their
best interest, with complete independence.

From anonymized statistics on our website we know that around 17'000 people use
Tails every day. If each of them donated 12€, the price of a USB stick, our
budget for the whole year would be raised in a single day. As you can see, this
is a realistic goal and a ridiculous budget compared to the multibillionaire
companies and agencies running the surveillance business.

But many of our users could actually get in
trouble if they donated to an anti-surveillance tool like Tails. So when donating to Tails
you are also [[helping all of these people|news/who_are_you_helping]] by keeping Tails alive. Please
consider setting up a yearly or monthly donation.
 
What we do with your money
==========================

In our last post we explained [[why we needed donations]]. Today we're
telling you more about how we use these donations.

In 2015, we spent around 184'000€, distributed as follows:

[[!img expenses.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Releases &
foundations: 18%, New features: 16%, Help desk: 16%, Administration
work: 9%, Administration others: 4%, Meeting: 10%, Infrastructure
others: 1%, Infrastructure work: 27%"]]

- Even without building anything new in Tails, publishing our
  **releases** every 6 weeks is a lot of work as it also implies fixing
  the problems found in previous versions, documenting the changes,
  migrating to newer versions of Debian, GNOME, and Tor Browser, and
  making sure that the **foundations** of Tails stay relevant. As the
  schedule of emergency releases is unpredictable, they are hard to fund
  through grants and we instead usually rely on donations.

- In proportion, **new features** constitute a rather small part of our
  budget. They are almost exclusively covered by grants or developed by
  volunteers. Since 2015, new features that were not funded by grants
  included:

  - Integrating the *Electrum* Bitcoin client.
  - Replacing *Vidalia* with *Onion Circuits*.
  - Continue working on a new version of *Tails Greeter*.
  - Mentoring a Google Summer of Code on *Tails Server* to allow running
    onion services from Tails (websites, collaboration tools, etc.).
  - Adding an offline mode that disables all networking.
  - Adding support for `obfs4` Tor bridges.
  - Writing numerous additions to our website and online documentation.

- Our **help desk** is helping hundreds of Tails users each month. Each
  user request costs us 6€ on average to proceed. In 2016 our help desk
  was paid entirely out of donations.

- Organizing our own **meetings** and attending conferences in our field
  is critical to keep our community alive and relevant. But this is
  usually hard to get funded by grants, so donations help us a lot here.
  Since 2015, we attended more than 15 international conferences on free
  software (DebConf), Internet freedom (IFF), hacking (32C3), human
  rights (RightsCon), and journalism (Logan CIJ). And organized more
  than 10 internal in-person meetings.

<!--
RightsCon
FOSDEM15
FOSDEM16
DebConf15
DebConf16
MiniDebConfLyon
MiniDebConfBudapest
32C3
PSES15
CCCamp
GUADEC15
GUADEC16
IFF
Logan
Tor Dev

CI1
CI2
CI3
UX1
UX2
UX3
Installer
Summit15
Summit16
Accounting
-->

- In 2015, we worked a lot on **infrastructure**, for example to write
  an automated test suite to verify continuously the well-functioning of
  our ISO images, to automate the build of development ISO images for
  testing, etc. This work is invisible to the user but, for example,
  makes it much faster to publish emergency releases when we discover
  serious bugs.

- Keeping Tails successful also implies quite a bit of
  **administration** to raise funds, do accounting, organize work, write
  reports, etc.

- Since 2015, we added Farsi and Italian translations to our website and
  worked on the prototype of a translation platform based on *Weblate*
  to allow more translators to contribute and more diverse people to use
  Tails.

Our plans for the coming years
==============================

As part of our ongoing donation campaign, we already explained you [[why
we needed donations]] and [[how we use these donations]]. Today we're
share with you our plans for the next years:

  - **Easier adoption**
    - **Revamp Tails Greeter**: make it easier to configure Tails when starting ([[!tails_ticket 5464]])
    - **Rethink the installation and upgrade process**: take a step back and reflect
      on the future of Tails Installer, the installation on Windows and
      Mac, and automatic upgrades ([[!tails_ticket 11679]])
    - **Graphical installation method for Mac OS**: what would it take
      to document tools other than Tails Installer to do a graphical
      installation from Mac OS? ([[!tails_ticket 11682]])
    - **Explain better what Tails is** and what makes it so awesome ([[!tails_ticket 9814]])

  - **Security hardening**
    - **Reproducible build of the ISO image**: protect users and
      developers from a malicious build of our ISO image ([[!tails_ticket 5630]])
    - **Persistent Tor state**: have persistent entry guards ([[!tails_ticket 5462]])
    - **HTTPS mirrors**: serve our downloads over HTTPS only ([[!tails_ticket 9796]])
    - **Persistent seed for random number generator**: have better entropy and stronger crypto ([[!tails_ticket 7675]])
    - **Stronger HTTPS**: give major browsers stronger means to authenticate our website ([[!tails_ticket 8191]])
    - **Browser fingerprint**: compare and reevaluate the web fingerprint of Tor Browser inside and outside Tails ([[!tails_ticket 5362]])

  - **Community**
    - **Web platform for translators**: make it easier to translate our website ([[!tails_ticket 10034]])
    - **Social contract**: guiding principles that reflects the commitment to our ideals ([[!tails_ticket 11669]])
    - **Personas**: study and describe our user base to take better design decisions ([[!tails_ticket 11162]])

  - **Better user support**
    - **Request tracker**: platform to handle better support requests ([[!tails_ticket 9960]])
    - **Improvements to WhisperBack**: make it easier and faster to answer support requests ([[!tails_ticket 9799]], [[!tails_ticket 9800]])

  - **Sustainability**
    - **Tails based on Debian Stretch** ([Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/278))
    - **Better server infrastructure**: to handle our growing needs on continuous integration and have a backup server ([[!tails_ticket 11680]], [[!tails_ticket 6185]])
    - **Test Tails on ARM**: starting with a few Chromebooks supported by Debian ([[!tails_ticket 11677]])
    - **Tails on tablets**: specify what upstream projects (GNOME, Debian, etc.) should work on to help porting Tails to tablets and smartphones ([[!tails_ticket 10039]])
    - **Build our custom Debian packages automatically**: as part of our automated ISO builds ([[!tails_ticket 6220]])

  - **Fundraising**
    - **Have more reliable and steady sources of income**
    - **Depend less on grants from governments**

  - **New applications and features**
    - **Graphical interface for the Additional Packages persistent feature**: allow users to customize which applications are available in their Tails ([[!tails_ticket 9050]] [[!tails_ticket 9059]])
    - **Backups**: provide a graphical tool to backup the persistent volume ([[!tails_ticket 5301]])
    - **Screen locker**: allow users to lock their session with a password ([[!tails_ticket 5684]])
    - **Full self-upgrades**: upgrade a Tails from itself endlessly for ease and security ([[!tails_ticket 7499]])
    - **Tails Server**: run onion services from Tails (VoIP chat rooms, collaboration tools, web servers, messaging servers, etc.) ([[!tails_ticket 5688]])
    - **Tails Verifier**: allow verifying whether a Tails installation has been corrupted ([[!tails_ticket 7496]])
    - **Investigate possible replacements for Pidgin** ([[!tails_ticket 11686]])
    - **TrueCrypt support in GNOME**: graphical utilities to mount TrueCrypt volumes ([[!tails_ticket 11684]], [[!tails_ticket 6337]])
