[[!meta title="Improvements to the donation process"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

Calendar until the campaign:

  - Week 35, Aug 24: draft illustrations and text
  - Week 36, Aug 31: usability testing
  - Week 37, Sep  7: final illustrations and text
  - Week 38, Sep 14: sajolida unavailable
  - Week 39, Sep 21: sajolida unavailable
  - Week 40, Sep 28: sajolida unavailable
  - Week 41, Oct  5: sajolida unavailable
  - Week 42, Oct 12: launch the campaign

<h1 id="survey">Survey lapsed donors</h1>

Goals:

* Learn about motivation to better frame our message
* Identify low hanging fruits in how we could steward them better

Call:

<pre>
Subject: Tell us how you feel about your donation to Tails

Hi,

Thank you so much for donating to Tails in the past!

Donations from individuals like you are our most precious source of
income as they guarantee our independence.

Today, we want to ask you a few questions about how satisfied you are
with your donation and Tails in general.

We will use your feedback to improve our relationship with donors like
you and encourage more people to donate to Tails. This will help us
continue building the world's most popular secure operating system.

To help us, please answer this survey of 7 simple questions before
Thursday, August 20:

{SURVEYURL}

Your opinion matters to us!

Our achievements in 2020 so far
-------------------------------

* In 2020, Tails was started 30 000 times every day on average, 18% more
  than in 2019.

* We completely redesigned our Home and About pages, making it more
  engaging and easier to understand what Tails is and why people should
  use it:

  https://tails.boum.org/
  https://tails.boum.org/about/

* We added support to Secure Boot, now required by most modern laptops.

* We improved automatic upgrades to remove the need for most manual
  upgrades, which was one of the major pain points for users.

* We simplified the instructions on how to start Tails, which was
  another major pain point for users.

* We created and printed outreach material in 5 languages to tell
  the world about Tails:

  https://tails.boum.org/contribute/how/promote/material/leaflets/

* We migrated our issue tracker to GitLab to make it easier to
  contribute to Tails and speed up our work.

In solidarity,

--
Tails

To stop receiving emails from us, click the following link:
{OPTOUTURL}
</pre>

List:

    ./scripts/donors-report -c ' ' \
      -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2019-01-01_to_2019-12-31.csv \
      -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2020-01-01_to_2020_02_03.csv | sed 's/^ : //' > /tmp/2019

    echo "firstname,lastname,email" > ~/Tor\ Browser/lapsed.csv

    ./scripts/donors-report -c ' ' -x exclude.dat -x /tmp/2019 \
       -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2016-10-01_to_2016-12-31.csv \
       -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2017-01-01_to_2017-12-31.csv \
       -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2018-01-01_to_2018-12-31.csv \
       -p data/PayPal_RiseupLabs_2019-01-01_to_2019-12-31.csv | sed 's/^ : /,,/' >> ~/Tor\ Browser/lapsed.csv

Questions:

1. **Why did you donate to Tails?** (Short free text)

   | Topic | |
   |--|
   | Privacy | 24 |
   | Protection | 18 |
   | Freedom | 16 |
   | Surveillance | 6 |
   | Security | 5 |
   | Censorship | 2 |

1. **Which part of our mission appeals to you most?** (Single choice)

   | Answer | |
   |--|
   | Protecting against surveillance | 53% |
   | Protecting against censorship | 18% |
   | Building a secure operating system | 29% |

1. **Did you donate to Tails because you use it yourself or because you
   want other people to be able to use it?** (5-point Likert scale)

   * I use Tails myself
   * I want other people to be able to use Tails

   | | |
   |--|
   | Myself | 22% |
   | |  6% |
   | | 30% |
   | | 16% |
   | Others | 25% |

   Average: 3.1

1. **How much of an impact do you feel your donation had?** (5-point Likert scale)

   | | |
   |--|
   | 1 | 36% |
   | 2 | 21% |
   | 3 | 29% |
   | 4 |  7% |
   | 5 |  7% |

   Average: 2.3

   2 people commented on the ambiguity of the scale, whether 1 was good
   or bad. I would take these results with a pinch of salt.

1. **Do you feel like you received too much or not enough communication
  from us?** (Multiple choice)

   | | |
   |--|
   | Not enough | 13% |
   | The right amount | 81% |
   | Too much | 2% |

  If "*Not enough*":

  1. **How many times a year would you like to receive information from us?** (5-point Likert scale)

   | | |
   |--|
   | 1 | 0% |
   | 2 | 0% |
   | 3 | 31% |
   | 4 | 25% |
   | 5 | 44% |

    Average: 4.1

  1. **What would like us to communicate more about?** (Short text)

     - Features and improvements (9)
     - Educational content: how to use Tails and other resources (4)
     - Technical work and life of the project (3)
     - What donations are used for (2)
     - Global impact: use cases and number of users (2)
     - Security vulnerabilities (2)

1. **If you didn't renew your donation last year, would you mind telling us why?** (Multiple choice)

   | | |
   |--|
   | I was not aware | 29% |
   | I did renew my donation | 21% |
   | I couldn't afford it | 20% |
   | I donated to a different project instead | 6% |
   | I got irritated with too much communication | 2% |
   | I lost interest in Tails | 2% |
   | I had a problem while donating | 0% |
   | I felt pressurized to donate | 0% |
   | I was not sure how my money was used | 0% |

   1. **What problem did you have while donating?** (Short text)

1. **Do you have any questions, concerns, or possible improvements for us to take into account?** (Open ended)

   - How we calculate the number of users (1)
   - Rude answer from Help Desk (1)
   - T-shirts (1)
   - A few technical suggestions
   - Lots of love!

Conclusions:

- We're doing good! Negative comments were few exceptions in a mass of love:
  the work that we do is very important and we do it well.

- We should communicate a bit more and better with past donors:

  * The main reason for lapsed donors not to renew their donation is lack of
    awareness.

  * We should write a newsletter to donors half-way through the year or when we
    have major improvements. ([[!tails_ticket fundraising#17703]])

  * Adding an opt-in mechanism for our newsletter would allow us to be less shy
    to write them. ([[!tails_ticket fundraising#17702]])

  * LimeSurvey is more convenient to send mass emails to donors.
    ([[!tails_ticket fundraising#17704]])

  * We should communicate more about the impact of donations and how we spend
    the money.

- About our donors and their interests:

  * Donors are mostly users (74%) but they also want to help others (70%).

  * Donors mostly talk about:

    - Privacy (24)
    - Protection from oppressive governments and persecution (18)
    - Liberty and freedom of speech (16)

<h1 id="donate">Improve /donate ([[!tails_ticket 17697]])</h1>

Since we won't do usability tests and to avoid a situation à la
[[!tails_ticket 16830]], we will limit our changes to:

* Things we agree on easily
* Research-based recommendations from experts
* Things we can A/B test during the campaign

Ideas:

* Add an image.
* Improve "How we spend our money" to tell more about the impact.
* Improve the headline.

<h1 id="thanks">Rewrite /donate/thanks and /donate/canceled ([[!tails_ticket 17701]])</h1>

These pages look crap and we don't spend time on them because we don't
see them ourselves. But I think that they are critical and low-hanging
fruits. Some [psychological
foundations](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/peak-end-rule/) for that.

Add to each of them:

* A feedback mechanism, especially on /donate/canceled!
* An image
* Better text

These are things that are better studied in usability tests but they
are so bad right now that it should be easy to agree on possible
improvements while keeping them cheap.

<h1 id="ab">A/B testing during the campaign (if needed)</h1>

Like I did for [[!tails_ticket 16830]], we could do more such things
during the campaign. For example, we could test different images, text,
or controversial changes.

<h1 id="buttons">Analyze the results of the A/B testing on frequency buttons ([[!tails_ticket 16830]])</h1>

Compare the conversion rates between Tor Browser, Tails, and mobile.
I'll be analyzing logs when looking at the results of the A/B testing on
the monthly buttons anyway.

Anything else worth analyzing in the logs?
