[[!meta title="Explain Tails"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Prototype
=========

- [[Home|about/staging/home]]
- [[About|about/staging/about]]

Redmine view
============

You need the "Worker" role:

<https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=328>

Home
====

### Search button

- <strike>the search button, IMO, should stay in the purple part. It moves
  according to the width of the windows and doesn't look great when it's
  too far on the side.</strike>

- <strike>The search box is floating in a weird place and moves around
  to even weirder places depending when I zoom in/out.</strike>

- <strike>the search bar goes out of the purple part in my computer (I have
  slightly increased font size)</strike>

- <strike>On smartphone, the search box is on top of the logo (as in it
  hides it).</strike>

- <strike>There's a weird dark purple block between the logo and the top bar;
  I don't understand what it's for.</strike>

  * **The search box should be aligned like on the current homepage until
    640 px. After 640 px the tagline should disappear and the search box
    should appear below the logo and with the same purple background.**

### Top bar

- <strike>I find the green background of the top bar too "heavy"
  and dark, compared to the rest of the page that is more "breathy"
  (sorry, I lack vocabulary in this area).</strike>

  <strike>I think the green on the top bar is too dark. The color
under "How Tails works" seems less aggressive.</strike>

  <strike>I also think the green of the navigation menu on the top is too dark.
  I think it would work better having the darker version being the current
  page, instead of the opposite.</strike>

  * **We put a white background and a green underline on hover and
    selflink.**

- <strike>colors should be consistent in the bar menu as in the home page as in
  the donation page. indeed, in the donation page, the buttons for
  donating are dark green for selection and light green for un-selection.
  maybe use the same palette?</strike>

  * **We put our dark green on selflink and our medium green on hover.**

- <strike>On the home page's top bar, "How Tails works" is pre-selected and
  not clickable, so the only way to get to the about page — that
  actually explains how Tails works — is to click the aforementioned
  "How Tails works" button further below down the page.
  Is this on purpose?</strike>

  * **This is a known issue of the prototype. Will be fixed.**

- On smartphone, the top bar occupies 3 full lines.

### Donate button

- <strike>I find the "Donate" button too aggressively contrasted with the
  rest of the page. It's an important button but still, I don't feel
  super comfortable with making it the most eye-catchy button on our
  home page. Were the rest of the top bar less dark (for example),
  this button would jump at me less aggressively.</strike>

  <strike>I also think the yellow Donate is a bit aggressive. It's nice to make
  it stand out, but a bit less flashy would be nice.</strike>

  * **We made it underline in yellow and with a heart icon.**

### Hero image

- <strike>in the first image, the notebook, is not present a USB stick
  (!?)</strike>

  * **We added a vectorized laptop with a purple USB.**

### 1st sentence

- <strike>"Tails is a portable operating system that protects your privacy and
  helps you avoid censorship." -> maybe put "Tails" in bold (wikipedia
  convention, I think it would not be surprising for readers) ?</strike>

- <strike>Same sentence... maybe it's too much, but I'd put "privacy" in green
  and "avoid censorship" in purple.</strike>

  * **I'm not convinced that this would solve any actual problem but it
    might be tricky to find a way to do this that looks pretty, given
    our limited skills in the domain. Low priority for me.**

  * **We added enough horizontal space to be able to split the sentence
    to make the important works stand out a bit more.**

### How Tails works

- <strike>It took me some time to understand that "How Tails works"
  was a link and not the heading for the following section.</strike>

  <strike>I understand the rounded corners should hint me towards thinking
  "it's a button", but it's the only time on the home page that this
  exact style is used to convey this meaning: previous links are
  styled in a more traditional web manner (text, feedback on hover,
  rectangle container). It seems to me that this button is basically
  adding a tiny pinch of "touch mobile app" design paradigm in the
  middle of a website based on other design paradigms, hence my
  initial confusion. Giving visual feedback when hover'ing this
  button would help a bit (on non-touch devices) but this does not
  feel sufficient to me and I'm sure you can find a better
  solution</strike>

  <strike>I also didn't realize the "How tails works" was a link and not the
  headers of the section under it. Maybe saying "Learn more about how
  Tails work ? " or something like that would make it clearer?</strike>

  <strike>I agree too that the "How Tails works" links doesn't work. Maybe move
  it below "who uses Tails"? Or just remove the link, it's already at the
  top of the pages for those who want details.</strike>

  * **We added**:

    - **A verb at the begin of this "call for action"**
    - **A shadow to the button to be styled like the previous "Install
      Tails" button**
    - **A second button on the same line**

### News

- <strike>We don't have the "news" preview in the /home page anymore. Maybe not
  a problem, but it's clear we'll lose some readers of those... should the
  browser open on the /news page instead?</strike>

  * For more context, this is the current situation regarding our news:

    - They are listed and linked, along the security advisories, from /index.

    - They are inserted entirely in /news and /home, the home of Tor
      Browser in Tails:

    - Analyzing the top 10 referrers for /news/test_usb_images, our
      homepage is #1 with 53% of all visits:

      <pre>
      https://tails.boum.org/                     2438       53%
      -                                           1055       23%
      https://tails.boum.org/home/                 344        7%
      https://www.nextinpact.com/                  173        4%
      https://tails.boum.org/news/test_3.12-rc1/   139        3%
      https://tails.boum.org/news/test_usb_images/ 130        3%
      https://tails.boum.org/news/index.en.html     53        1%
      https://www.google.com/                       25        1%
      https://tails.boum.org/recentchanges/         18        0%
      https://www.reddit.com/r/tails/comments/...   12        0%
      ...
      Total                                       4606
      </pre>

    So indeed, these links are useful on /index. What about putting it between
    the benefits and the users, so it's quite early in the page.

  * **We added 3 news (instead of 2) between the calls for action and the personas.**

### Users

- The "Who uses Tails" pictures are either too small, or too detailed -
  they don't come out very good on my (middle size) screen). The
  journalist's mouth seems really mean and angry, should probably modify
  that?

  I don't like the different of style between images of personas and
  illustrations.

  * **We asked Andrés to redraw them, either using icons or characters in
    his style.**

- <strike>I think probably not so important in homepage. and could be feel as
  exclusion for other kinds of persona. And add "You", is not a solution.</strike> [WONT]

  * **I added this section because it was hard for people during
    usability tests to relate to who Tails could be useful for only from
    the description of the benefits.**

    **I decided to list our [[contribute/personas]], who are also
    the people listed in our [[contribute/mission]] because I
    thought that it would be simpler to agree upon and a stronger
    statement towards these people than a more exhaustive list.**

    **I think that 'You' is a good solution. Note that the same generic
    'You' also appears in our [[contribute/mission]].**

### References

- <strike>Should Tor, riseup, EFF, etc be links ?</strike>

  * There's a trade-off here. Adding link might:

    - Get some people to leave our website, especially the "Access Now"
      logo which was thought to be a button by some people during the
      usability tests.

    - Build more trust if people don't know these orgs and visit their
      websites to learn about them. But I'm not sure how realistic this
      hypothesis is if people don't know these orgs already.

  * **We added links for the next round of usability tests and will see
    if people use them to build trust or if people leave our website by
    clicking on them.**

- <strike>Snowden's picture at the bottom looks badly cropped, is there a way to
  get a better one ?</strike>

  * For info, it's the picture of his Twitter account:
    <https://twitter.com/Snowden/photo>.

  * **We put a circle around it to draw some kind of frame.**

### Misc

- <strike>versione di tails in home</strike>

  * **We added a call for action with the version number to go to /install.**

- <strike>"The huge diversity of people and organizations running Tor relays
  make it more secure and more sustainable." ? s/make/makes/ ?</strike> [WONT]

- <strike>JOBS might be included within the CONTRIBUTE page (how many jobs did
  you publish in the last 10 years? :)</strike> [WONT]

  * **It's out-of-scope for this project to discuss changes to the list of
    links in the top bar.**

### On a smartphone

- <strike>I have to zoom out to see the full pictures</strike>

- <strike>and they are a bit larger than the text part, which initially takes
  the whole width of the screen (before I zoom out).</strike>

- <strike>There's almost no actual
  content above the fold, while I would hope to see "Tails is
  a portable operating system that protects your privacy and avoids<
  censorship" there.</strike>

- <strike>The images on the home page don't entirely fit: I have to scroll to
  the right to see the missing bits, where they overlap with the
  stripped background instead of the main white body background,
  which feels unpolished.</strike>

About
=====

### Inclusive characters

- <strike>I find the illustrations about how tails works very nice and
  effective. However, the characters are incredibly heteronormative (the
  feminine girl with long eyelashes, the hipster boy with manly beard...),
  and here we're making a strong assumption about us as a community and
  our perspective users. Which I find very problematic, politically
  speaking.</strike>

  * **We asked Andrés to draw different and more inclusive characters on the
    About page.**

- <strike>"can be installed on any USB stick of 8 GB" -> not "any", so let's say
  "on an USB stick" ?</strike> [WONT]

  * **In practice, USB sticks that don't work are extremely rare these
    days ([[support/known_issues]]) so I want to favor the simplicity of
    the language over technical correctness here. Writting "on a USB
    stick", I expect people to wonder what this USB stick is, whether it
    has to be a special one.**

- <strike>"Online trackers and advertisers won't be able to follow you around
  from one site to another anymore." site -> website, like the previous
  paragraph ?</strike> [DONE]

- <strike>"it cannot be related to you." -> is this the right word? Not a
  native, but sounds weird to me... ask a native ?</strike> [DONE]

  * **Cody reviewed the whole page already.**

### On a smartphone

- <strike>big margin between paragraphs</strike>

- <strike>On a smartphone, images are ordered a bit weirdly compared to
  text: I see a sequence of N × "2 text sections, followed by
  2 images".</strike>
