[[!meta title="Frequently asked questions"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Can I install other add-ons in the browser?
-------------------------------------------

Installing add-ons in the browser might break the security built in Tails.

Add-ons can do anything within the browser, and even if all the networking goes
through Tor, some add-ons might interact badly with the rest of the
configuration or leak private information.

1. They can track and reveal information about your browsing behaviour, browsing
history, or system information, either on purpose or by mistake.

2. They can have bugs and security holes that can be remotely exploited by an
attacker.

4. They can have bugs breaking the security from the other add-ons, for example
Torbutton, and break your anonymity.

5. They can break your anonymity by making your browsing behaviour
distinguishable amongst other Tails users.

No add-on, apart from the ones already included in Tails, have been seriously
audited and should be considered safe to use in this context, unless proven
otherwise.

<div class="next">
  <ul>
    <li>[[Warnings about persistence|doc/first_steps/persistence/warnings#index3h1]]</li>
    <li>[[Browsing the web with Iceweasel|doc/anonymous_internet/iceweasel]]</li>
    <li>[[Can I hide the fact that I am using Tails?|doc/about/fingerprint/]]</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<!--
XXX: Push that information to the browser documentation?
XXX: Check https://www.torproject.org/torbutton/torbutton-faq.html.en#recommendedextensions
-->

Does Tails work with 64 bits processors?
----------------------------------------

Tails is a 32 bit operating system. But it also works on 64 bit processors, such
as 64 bit Intel and AMD processors, since they have backwards compatibility with
32 bit.

We are working on a 64 bit version of Tails see [[!tails_ticket 5456]] and
[[!tails_ticket 5835]].

Does Tails work on ARM architecture, Raspberry Pi, or tablets?
--------------------------------------------------------------

For the moment, Tails is only available on the x86 and x86_64 architectures.
The Raspberry Pi and many tablets are based on the ARM architecture. Tails do
not work on the ARM architecture so far.

Look for a tablet with an AMD or Intel processor. Try to verify its
compatibility with Debian beforehand, for example make sure that the Wi-Fi card
is supported.

Can I download using BitTorrent with Tails?
-------------------------------------------

Tails does not ship any BitTorrent software and is unlikely to do so in the
future.

The problem with using BitTorrent over Tor is double:

  - It is technically hard to do it properly, see:
    <https://blog.torproject.org/blog/bittorrent-over-tor-isnt-good-idea>.
  - It harms the network, see:
    <https://blog.torproject.org/blog/why-tor-is-slow>.

Is it safe to use Tails on a compromised system?
------------------------------------------------

Tails runs independently from the operating system installed on the computer.
So, if the computer has only been compromised by software, running from inside
your operating system (virus, trojan, etc.), it is safe to use Tails. This is
true as long as Tails itself has been installed on a trusted system.

If the computer has been compromised by someone having physical access to it and
who installed untrusted pieces of hardware, then it might not be safe to use
Tails.

Why does tails.boum.org rely on a commercial SSL certificate?
-------------------------------------------------------------

HTTPS provides encryption and authentication on the web. The standard
authentication mechanism through SSL certificates is centralized and based on
commercial or institutional certificate authorities. This mechanism has proven
to be susceptible to various methods of compromise. See our [[warning about
man-in-the-middle attacks|doc/about/warning#man-in-the-middle]].

Still, we use HTTPS on our website and rely on a commercial certificate even if
we acknowledge those security problems.

1. Providing no HTTPS and no kind of encryption would be a worse option.

2. Providing a self-signed certificate or another marginally supported
authentication mechanism would not work for the majority of users. Modern
browsers provide very strong warning when facing a self-signed certificate, and
many people would think the website is broken when it is not.

We prefer to provide weak security, using a commercial certificate, that still
works for most people. At the same time, we make clear this security is limited
and encourage stronger ways of verifying the authenticity of Tails once
downloaded.  See our documentation on [[verifying the ISO|download#verify]].

How to analyse the results of online anonymity tests?
-----------------------------------------------------

Fingerprinting websites such as <https://panopticlick.eff.org/> or
<https://ip-check.info/> try to retrieve as much information as possible from
your browser to see if it can be used to identify you.

As explained in our documentation about
[[fingerprinting|doc/about/fingerprint]], Tails provides anonymity on the web by
making it difficult to distinguish a particular user amongst all the users of
Tails and the Tor Browser Bundle (TBB).

So, the information retrieved by such fingerprinting websites is not harmful for
anonymity in itself, as long as it is the same for all Tor users.

For example, the user-agent property of the browser is set to `Mozilla/5.0
(Windows; U; Windows NT 6.1; en-US; rv:1.9.2.3) Gecko/20100401 Firefox/3.6.3`,
as of Tails 0.21 and TBB 2.3.25-13. This value preserves your anonymity even if
the operating system installed on the computer is Windows NT and you usually run
Firefox. On the other hand, changing this value makes you distinguishable from
others Tor users and breaks your anonymity.

Furthermore, we verify the result of those websites before each release, see our
[[test suite|contribute/release_process/test]].

Can I view websites using Adobe Flash with Tails?
-------------------------------------------------

Adobe Flash is not included in Tails for several reasons:

  - It is proprietary software which prevents us from legally including it in
    Tails.
  - It is closed source and so we have no idea of what it really does.
  - It has a very long history of serious security vulnerabilities.
  - It is known to favor privacy invasive technologies such as
    [Flash cookies](XXX Add link to Flash cookies, https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/betterprivacy/?).

We have considered including [Gnash](XXX Add link to Gnash) which is an
open-source alternative to Adobe Flash but it is not the case yet, see
[[!tails_ticket 5363]].

But you can already watch HTML5 videos and view WebGL websites with the Tails
browser.

Can I install Tails permanently onto my hard disk?
--------------------------------------------------

This is not possible using the recommended installation methods. Tails is
designed to be a live system running from a removable media: DVD, USB stick or
SD card.

This is a conscious decision as this mode of operation is better for what we
want to provide to our users: amnesia, the fact that Tails leaves no traces on
the computer after a session is closed.

Can I verify the integrity of a Tails device?
---------------------------------------------

It is not possible to verify the integrity of a Tails device when running Tails
from this same device. This would be like asking to someone whether she is a
liar; the answer of a true liar would always be "no".

- To verify the integrity of a DVD from a separate trusted system , you can
verify the signature of the ISO image as documented in [[verify the ISO image
using the command line|doc/get/verify_the_iso_image_using_the_command_line]]
against the DVD itself.

- There is no documented method of verifying the integrity of a USB stick or SD
card installed using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

Is Java installed in the Tails browser?
---------------------------------------

Tails does not include a Java plugin in its browser because it could break your anonymity.

Other topics
============

- XXX_NICK_XXX in Pidgin might be caused by a lack of RAM
