[[!meta title="Revamp the Greeter UI"]]

**Ticket**: [[!tails_ticket 5464 desc="#5464"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

Rationale
=========

tails-greeter works fine, and its code in not that bad anymore, so on
this side it's now feasible to add features (e.g. [[!tails_ticket
5421]], [[!tails_ticket 5479]]).

However, the greeter UI is difficult to use, and adding more options
in the current state of things would only make things worse
usability-wise.

So, we have to improve the greeter UI to make it more ergonomic and
easier to use.

Current proposal
================

After working on a prototype and do UX testing with Numa people, we arrived to
the proposal described here.

**WARNING**: these complex SVG files are often not well rendered in a browser.
They are thus exported as PNG. If you update the SVG please also update the PNGs.

Flow
----

[[!img greeter-flow.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-flow.svg">source</a>

1st screen
----------

  - In the case of a read-write media with a persistent volume:

    [[!img greeter-1st-screen.png size="" alt=""]]

    <a href="greeter-1st-screen.svg">source</a>

  - The **Remember** does not appear if the media is read-only (DVD or
    SD card in read-only mode).

  - The **Persistence** section only appears if there is a persistent
    volume on the media.

### Saved localization

  - On a media with saved localization options, the first region is replaced by a summary of the current settings:

    [[!img greeter-1st-screen-langsaved.png size="" alt=""]]

    <a href="greeter-1st-screen-langsaved.svg">source</a>

  - If the media is read-only, the **Erase** button does not appear.

Guided configuration
--------------------

[[!img greeter-guided-intro.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-guided-intro.svg">source</a>


[[!img greeter-guided-context.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-guided-context.svg">source</a>


[[!img greeter-guided-save.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-guided-save.svg">source</a>


[[!img greeter-guided-check.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-guided-check.svg">source</a>

### Resources

  - [Smashing magazine: Progress Trackers in Web Design: Examples and Best
    Practices](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/01/15/progress-trackers-in-web-design-examples-and-best-design-practices/)

Advanced configuration
----------------------

[[!img greeter-advanced-screen.png size="" alt=""]]

<a href="greeter-advanced-screen.svg">source</a>

Next steps
==========

Roadmap:

* paper UX testing
* share and discuss results and refine SVG mockups
* design user interface graphics
* implement UI in glade and integrate into the greeter

Resources
=========

UI / UX documentation
---------------------

* [GNOME's studies](http://live.gnome.org) on the subject

Related tickets
---------------

* Moving stuff *out of* the greeter: [[!tails_ticket 5501]]

Past discussions
----------------

* <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2012-March/000936.html>
* thread starting at
  <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2012-March/000972.html>

Past work
---------

* `feature/single_toggle_button` branch in tails-greeter repo


