[[!meta title="Tails HackFest, 2014, Paris"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

What
====

Join us on July 5-6 in Paris, to make online anonymity and digital
privacy usable by the masses! Whether you're a writer, a software
developer, a designer, a system administrator or just plain
interested, come learn about the challenges faced by Tails, and how
you can be part of the solution.

The Tails HackFest will bring together anyone interested in making
Tails more usable and more secure. This open event will be an intense
mix of teaching, drawing, coding, sharing, learning and celebrating.

Many thanks to Debian, IRILL, Mozilla and the Tor project for
supporting this event!

Logistics
=========

* Where: the venue for the event is [IRILL, Paris,
  France](https://www.irill.org/about/information-for-guests):
  23, avenue d'Italie - 75013 Paris (Métro Place d'Italie)

* Dates: Saturday, July 5, 2014 - Sunday, July 6, 2014

* Time: 10 AM - 10 PM

Registration
============

If you want to attend, please consider dropping us a note about it.
This is optional, but would help organizing this event.

Contact
=======

* <tails-hackfest-2014@boum.org>
* \#tails-hackfest on `irc.oftc.net`

Schedule
========

This is a very preliminary schedule. If there's something else you
would like to see happen during the HackFest: talk to us.

Talks
-----

* **Introductory talk**

* **Triaging Tails tickets**, by BitingBird: an easy way to start contributing and learn what are the plans

* **Enforcing Anonymity and Improving Pseudonymity in Tails**, by
  David Wolinsky from the Decentralized and Distributed Systems
  Research group at Yale

* **Automated testing of Tails**: introduction, demonstration of
  running the tests, demonstration of writing a new testcase, known
  issues, future plans

* **Documentation style guide**: improving our writing style to make it
  clear, informative, and consistent requires knowing a few tricks and some good
  will. This session will present some aspects of our style guide and present
  useful resources to learn more. Then we will put that into practice and try to
  collectively rewrite bits of our documentation to make them better.

Workshops
---------

* **Deciphering the process of contributing to Tails**, by DrWhax & u: There are lots of ways to contribute : helping with user support, writing documentation, translating, proof reading, web programming, testing ISOs, reporting bugs, triaging bugs, auditing code, writing code, contributing back to Debian for software used in Tails, doing system administration, advocating Tails, formulating ideas on further improvements and more.

* **Contributing to Tails by working on Debian**: sometimes, the best
  way to help Tails is to make Debian better; let's see how

* **Improving the infrastructure behind Tails**, by intrigeri: getting started with Tails system administration

* **Translate Tails**, by u & others: hands-on translations: how to set up a working environment to improve Tails in your language, it's easier than it sounds.

* **Redesigning our homepage**: building on the strategy from the [[previous
  session|HackFest_2014_Paris#website_strategy]], let's talk about our
  homepage in more details. See [[!tails_ticket 7082]].

  - What are the problems with the current homepage?
  - What do we want to achieve with this new homepage?

* **Restructuring our sidebar**: this session will take over the work on the
   work of the [[previous session|HackFest_2014_Paris#website_strategy]] to
   restructure our sidebar. Maybe using [[!wikipedia card sorting]]?

Discussions
-----------

* **Inserting a layer of virtualization into Tails**, as a follow-up
  to David Wolinsky's talk. Let's think together about it, evaluate
  what compromises are acceptable, and come up with good ideas.

<a id="website_strategy"></a>

* **Improving our website strategy and architecture**: in the last month,
  proposals were made to improve at least our homepage, and our sidebar. But we
  need to take a bottom-up approach and think in terms of objectives and
  strategy first, in order to get the implementation and details right down the
  road. This session will talk in abstract terms about our website strategy.

And much more!
--------------

Most of the discussions and hands-on hacking that will happen there
are deliciously unscheduled! :)

Wishlist
--------

Somebody is interested in seeing a talk about that, would you make it happen?

* **Promoting Tails**

* **Links between Tails and Tor**

* **Tails' community**

Community
---------

Tails is made by, and used by, very different people - and we appreciate that! It is anyone's responsability to make sure everyone else feels welcomed and safe. A code of conduct is being written, please read it before attending :)

Note also that lots of Tails users/contributors have strong interest in privacy, so before making video/photo, ask everybody in the picture if they agree to be photographed or filmed.
