Corresponding ticket: [[!tails_ticket 6064]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Left to do
==========

Generic
-------

* Minimized applications in the taskbar can't be raised via the
  taskbar. They can be raised via the *Activities Overwiew*.

Toshiba Encore 2 WT8-B
----------------------

* Intel Atom CPU Z3735F @ 1.33GHz (Bay Trail)
* can cold-boot from USB: hold down the Vol+ button, then hold down
  the Power button, until the boot selection menu appears.
  Select the desired boot device and press the Windows key.

### feature/jessie + 32-bit UEFI, 20150507:

* The Florence virtual keyboard is not very usable:
  - its default font size is way too small, but that can be configured
  - its "systray" icon is too small to be clicked, so one can't toggle
    the virtual keyboard on/off; see [[!tails_ticket 8312]]
* Wi-Fi
* Battery level monitoring: GNOME Shell always says 100%.
* Backlight tuning: GNOME Shell offers the UI, but it has no effect
  that I can perceive.
* Tor Browser 4.5 [[!tor_bug 15953 desc="does a weird resizing dance on startup"]].
* Sound card not detected (`/proc/asound/cards`), although a bunch of
  `snd_soc_*` kernel modules are loaded. Logs complain about missing
  `fw_sst_0f28.bin-i2s_master` firmware. Looks like [[!debbug 774914]]
  or <https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2254631> that suggests
  to fetch the firmware from the Chrome OS repository. Other sources
  suggest that the DSDT may be buggy.

Works fine
==========

Toshiba Encore 2
----------------

feature/jessie + 32-bit UEFI, 20150507:

* boots fine with `nomodeset` (otherwise screen blanks at `switching
  to inteldrmfb from simplefb`, although the OS continues loading)
* X.Org with KMS
* touchscreen
* USB

Resources
=========

* <https://twitter.com/kapper1224> gave an inspiring talk at DebConf18
  ([slides](https://www.slideshare.net/kapper1224/hacking-with-x86-windows-tablet-and-mobile-devices-on-debian-debconf18))
  about "Hacking with x86 Windows Tablet and mobile devices on
  Debian".
