[[!toc levels=2]]

**Ticket**: [[!tails_ticket 6370 desc="#6370"]]

Current status
==============

The `feature/ff24` branch builds, boots and basically works fine.

Guidelines for testers
======================

1. **What to test?** — Test an ISO built from the `feature/ff24`
   branch. The most recent [nightly
   built](http://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_feature-wheezy/)
   one should do. See the *Needs to be checked* section below, and
   test whatever should work fine in the Tails web browser.

1. **Information we need** — Always report the exact *commit* the ISO
   you are testing was built from (if it is a nightly built one,
   report its filename; if you built it yourself, you can get this
   information in *About Tails*).

1. **Reporting problems** — If you discover something suboptimal,
   first please check *Known issues* below and the sub-tasks of
   [[!tails_ticket 6370]]. Then, please check if it's a regression
   compared to the current stable Tails, and then:
   * If it is a regression, file a sub-task of [[!tails_ticket 6370]].
   * If it is not a regression, report a complete bug
     with WhisperBack.
   Note that the main goal of this testing session is *to discover
   regressions* in `feature/ff24`, and get confidence in it;
   basically, everything else will be treated as low-priority.
   Let's keep focus, please :)

1. **Reporting success** — When something works fine, please add it to
   the *Known working* section below. If you don't have Git commit
   bit, and have no personal Tails Git repo, report success to the
   email thread on the tails-dev mailing-list, or to intrigeri on IRC.

1. **If in doubt** — Ask intrigeri on IRC (`#tails-dev`).

Needs to be checked
===================

Unsafe browser
--------------

* **Note**: only test at commit fe54c8 or later. Bug reports against
  earlier versions are useless and will be ignored.
* Test in various locales.
* Test close and reopen.

Known issues
============

Basic fingerprinting
--------------------

Comparing to TBB 3.0b1:

* ip-check.info says TBB 3.0b1 has JavaScript version 1.8, while the
  Tails browser 24.1 has version 1.5
  - It says 1.8 too for Tails 0.21 and TBB 2.3.25-14-dev, so that
    looks like a regression.
  - It says 1.5 too for iceweasel 24.1.0esr-1 on Debian sid, so
    perhaps we should investigate the changes in the Iceweasel
    patchset between 17 and 24.1.
  - No downgraded package in that ISO vs. 0.21.
  - Perhaps some build-dep picked by the weird pbuilder chroot we had
    to setup to build our 24.1 browser is at fault.

* ip-check.info returns a line "Screen" with Tails 0.21, TBB 2.4.17~rc1, and TBB
  3.0b1 running from inside Tails 0.22 but not with Tails browser 24.1:
  - `Screen: 1000 x 567 pixels (inner size), Zoom: 100%`

* ip-check.info returns a slightly different "Browser Window" size, even if run
  in the same context (freshly started browser in a virtual machine with the
  same screen size).
  - `Browser window: 1000 x 600` with Tails browser 24.1
  - `Browser window: 1000 x 567` with Tails 0.21
  - `Browser window: 1000 x 591` with TBB 3.0b1
  - `Browser window: 1000 x 564` with TBB 2.4.17~rc1

Unsafe browser
--------------

Known broken at least in @en_US@ locales, intrigeri is working on it.

Known working
=============

Basic fingerprinting
--------------------

A build from `feature/ff24` is seen by ip-check.info just the same way
is Tails 0.20.1's browser.

Comparing to TBB 3.0b1:

* panopticlick: same results, modulo screen size

Prefs
-----

... were cleaned up ([[!tails_ticket 5768]]), many were merged with
Torbrowser's ones, and they are in the intended state at runtime.

Persistent bookmarks feature
----------------------------

* bootstrapped on this branch
* created with an older Tails, upgrading

Working with tails-i386-feature_ff24-0.22-20131111T0855Z-10f5a19.iso.
