[[!toc levels=4]]

# Rationale

Partial upgrades should provide only what has changed between two
releases (deltas) and have a way to apply those changes to the
previous version. 

At boot-time the security warning telling that a new Tails version is available
should provide an automated way of doing the upgrade.

# Definitions

* **update-description file**: a file that describes the update from
  a given version, to another, newer given version of a software
  product.
* **Incremental Upgrade Kit (IUK)**: a file that contains everything
  needed to update from.
* **full image**: a file that is sufficient to install and run Tails
  (currently, that means an ISO image).
* **target files**: the whole set of files included by reference into
  an update; e.g. this may be an IUK or a full image.

# Roadmap

1. (**past**) Tails 0.13 has the harmless part of the
   `feature/incremental-upgrades` branch merged (users creation with
   sudo credentials, dependencies installation), leaving aside the
   part about running the update frontend automatically at startup.
   => Tails 0.13 should have been able to incrementally upgrade to
   something newer, when running the update frontend by hand,
   but the included Tails OpenPGP signing key expired too quickly for
   this to happen.

2. (**past**) Now that 0.14 is out:

   * Prepare IUK: **done**
   * Update update-description files: **done**
   * Ask beta testers to try the incremental upgrade process: **done**
   * Find most critical bugs: **done**.

3. Complete **phase one: make ready for more alpha testing**

   Fix all child tickets of
   [[todo/incremental_upgrades:_complete_phase_one]], and then:

   * Prepare IUK
   * Update update-description files
   * Ask alpha testers to try the incremental upgrade process
   * Catch and fix most remaining bugs

4. Complete **phase two: make ready for beta testing**

   Fix all child tickets of
   [[todo/incremental_upgrades:_complete_phase_two]], and then:

   * Prepare IUK
   * Update update-description files
   * Ask beta testers to try the incremental upgrade process
   * Catch and fix most remaining bugs
   * Review user documentation and translations

5. Complete **phase three: deploy in production**

   Once we're happy with the whole thing, ship it, enabled by
   default, in the next Tails major release.

   See child tickets of [[todo/incremental_upgrades:_complete_phase_three]].

6. Later

  * make it easy to **generate update-description files** for a point
    release: phase two

# Scenarios

## As a Tails user

### When I boot Tails

The scenarios are described in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]], in the `features/frontend` directory of the
`tails-iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository. Use the `pherkin
features/frontend` command to run them.

## As a Tails developer

### When I prepare a point-release

#### I should prepare an IUK

The scenarios about this are described in Cucumber-style, using
[[!cpan Test-BDD-Cucumber]], in the `features/create` directory of the
`tails-iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository. Use the `pherkin
features/create` command to run them.

#### I should test the IUK

Until we have [[automated tests|todo/automated_builds_and_tests]],
I should manually try to install the IUK as intended on top of the old
version of Tails, and I should check that the resulting system behaves
as it should.

#### I should prepare update-description files

FIXME

* for the previous release (to announce they may update using the IUK
  that's being prepared)
* for the new release (to announce no update is available)

#### I should publish the IUK

FIXME

#### I should publish update-description files

FIXME

### When I prepare a major release

FIXME

#### I should prepare an update-description file

FIXME

* for the previous release (to announce they may update using the
  release that's being prepared)
* for the new release (to announce that no update is available)

#### I should publish the update-description file

FIXME

# Implementation

## Upgrade paths

To ease implementation, only upgrades to the next closest step
are supported in phase one.

E.g. say one has installed Tails 0.11 a while ago, and forgets
about it. We then release Tails 0.11.1, and publish a `0.11_to_0.11.1`
IUK, advertised by the update-description file for 0.11 users. We then
release Tails 0.11.2, and publish a `0.11.1_to_0.11.2` IUK, advertised
by the update-description file for 0.11.1 users. If the user starts
their Tails 0.11, the upgrade system proposes upgrading to 0.11.1.
Say the user accepts, the upgrade is performed, the user reboots, and
the upgrade system now proposes upgrading to 0.11.2.

Allowing to run these two steps in a row, without rebooting, is
mainly a GUI problem, and is postponed.

## Infrastructure

### generate an IUK

We have a `tails-create-iuk` program that takes two Tails full images as input, and:

* builds the "diff" SquashFS
* gets the new kernel(s), initrd(s), bootloader configuration
* brings all this together into a single file, in the IUK format

### Incremental Update Kit

#### IUK format

An IUK is a tar archive, compatible with GNU tar, that contains the
following files:

* `FORMAT`: contains the version of the IUK format (that is *1*), as
  a positive integer encoded in ASCII.
* `control.yml`: YAML associative array with the following keys:
  - `delete_files`: a list of files to delete from the
    system partition.
* zero, one or more `*.tar[.bz2]`: tar archives, compatible with GNU tar, optionally
  compressed with bzip2, that contain the set of files to add to, or
  update in the system partition: kernel(s), initrd(s), bootloader
  configuration, `*.squashfs` (the SquashFS "diff" that must be
  stacked on top of the older SquashFS filesystem(s)), etc.

File paths, both in `*.tar[.bz2]` and in the `delete_files` list, are
relative to the Tails system partition root, and must be compatible
with a FAT32 filesystem.

Tarballs contained in the IUK are meant to be extracted, one after the
other, sorted by ASCII order.

#### Initial implementation details

(This section is not a specification.)

The initial IUK generator will ship those files in every IUK:

* `system.tar` contains files that are already compressed
  (e.g. kernel, initrd, `*.squashfs`)
* `boot.tar.bz2` contains files that are not compressed already
  (that is the syslinux configuration)

These are implementation details the IUK installer software must not
rely upon.

### mirrors infrastructure

Using something like [Mozilla's
channels](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Software_Update:Channels)
(*stable*, *beta*, *nightly*) would e.g. allow us to push beta
updates earlier to a brave subset of users. Subscribing to a channel
other than *stable* is something that would be worth
[[persisting|doc/first_steps/persistence]]. We are not likely to
implement a channels system in phase one, but the infrastructure we
setup should leave room for such future extension.

### Update-description files

We want the client to get an answer to questions such as "I run
version N of product P on architecture A, what stable release update
is available?". To allow us changing the way the answer is computed in
the future, the amount of work done on the client's side should be
kept to a minimum. So, let's insert a level of indirection, and
pre-compute server-side the answer to the queries we want to support.

The answers are distributed on our HTTP servers in the form of a set
of update-description file files.

#### update-description file URL

* `https://tails.boum.org/update`
* URL schema version (so we can change it in the future), that is `v1`
  to start with.
* product name (e.g. *Tails*, but some day we may have *TailsServer*,
  *TailsHandheld* or whatever)
* product version -- the currently running version to upgrade from,
  e.g. *0.11* or *0.11.1*
* build-target (e.g. *i386*)
* channel (e.g. *stable* or *beta*)
* `update.yml`

Example: <https://tails.boum.org/update/v1/Tails/0.11/i386/beta/updates.yml>

Such a file shall be shipped along with its OpenPGP detached signature
(`updates.yml.pgp`).

#### update-description file format

An update-description file contains a YAML associative array with the
following top-level keys:

* `product-name`
* `product-version`
* `build-target`
* `channel`
* `updates`: a list of update elements.

Each update element is itself an associative array describing an
update to an individual product version, with the following keys:

* `version` -- the version of this update, that is the version of the
  running product after the update is completed and the system
  restarted (e.g. *0.11.1*)
* `type` -- *major* or *minor* (in phase one, all IUK will be about
  point-releases, and the type will therefore always be *minor*, but
  let's make room in case we want to announce major releases this way
  too at some point)
* `details-url` (optional) -- a URL to a web page with more
  information about the specified update (e.g.
  <https://tails.boum.org/news/version_0.11.1/>)
* `update-paths` -- a list of at least one and no more than two
  update path elements.

An update path element describes a set of target files that lives on
a remote server that must all be downloaded and applied to the product
to update it to that version. The keys for an update path element are
as follows:

* `type` -- *full* or *incremental* (IUK are about incremental
  upgrades, but let's make room to announce full images this way too
  at some point)
* `target-files`: a list of target files for this upgrade path.

Every target file element has the following keys:

* `url` -- A URL to the target file.
* `size` -- The size of the update, in bytes.
* `sha256` -- The SHA-256 hash of the patch file, encoded as an
  hexadecimal string. If the client
  generated value does not match this, the integrity check fails after
  download. (Other kind of hashes may be added in a future revision of
  the update-description file format -- which of these multiple hashes
  the client must verify will need to be specified when this happens.)

Example that would be found at
<https://tails.boum.org/update/v1/Tails/0.11.1/i386/stable/updates.yml>:

	product-name: Tails
	product-version: 0.11.1
	channel: stable
	build-target: i386
	
	updates:
	  - version: 0.11.2
	    type: minor
	    details-url: https://tails.boum.org/news/version_0.11.2/
	    update-paths:
	      - type: incremental
	        target-files:
	          - url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/iuk/Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk
	            size: 37345648
	            sha256: 5c5c47f6155e7807c971251fdad28d5f72ff78db446e43a41e4b900f29229a7d
	      - type: full
	        target-files:
	          - url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-0.11.2/Tails-i386-0.11.2.iso
	            size: 762123456
	            sha256: 1015e37e14c6daaecd528b4a841ef6ac2156a5790346d0fd036f9566ce5f641b

### Initial implementation details

This section is not a specification. The URL where the IUK's are
stored, and their file name, may change. If this happens, any
update-description file available on Tails HTTP mirrors, that
references an IUK whose URL changes, must be updated accordingly.

#### IUK file basename

An IUK's file basename is not an authoritative source of information
regarding its content. However, it should be unique (among IUKs that
exist on the Tails HTTP servers at a given time).

An IUK's file name is built from these underscore-separated elements,
followed by the `.iuk` suffix:

* product name (e.g. *Tails*)
* build-target (e.g. *i386*)
* product version -- the currently running version to upgrade from,
  e.g. *0.11* or *0.11.1*
* `to`
* the version of this update, that is the version of the running
  product after the update is completed and the system restarted (e.g.
  *0.11.2*)

Example: `Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk`

#### IUK URL

A given IUK is meant to be made available at the URL composed from:

* `http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/iuk/`
* the IUK file basename

Example: <http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/iuk/Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk>

## Client and user interface

The program currently telling that a new Tails version is available
must be adapted to use update-description files instead of the current
Atom feed.

### update-description downloader and verifier

This program has the responsibility to download and verify an
update-description file.

* Build the URI to its update-description file (might even be done at
  build time and hard-coded into the image) and to its
  cryptographic signature.
* Fetch the update-description file and its signature at these URIs.
* Verify the cryptographic signature of the update-description file.
* Check that content of the update-description file matches the
  currently running system (in terms of product name, product
  version, build-target and channel).
* Once all these steps have been successfully performed, the content
  of the update-description file is trusted to be legit, and is
  returned to the caller as such.

Failure, at any of the above steps, must be reported to the caller.

### update frontend

* Get a verified update-description file from the update-description
  downloader and verifier.
* Extract information about available updates from the
  update-description file.
* Present such information to the user, let them decide if they want
  to perform the update.
* If an incremental update path to the new version is available:
  - securely create a tempdir in `tmpfs`, owned by
    `tails-iuk-get-target-file:tails-iuk-get-target-file`,
    with mode 0750
  - run the IUK downloader and verifier, asking it to drop the
    verified target file into the tempdir (either the default umask
    will do, or steps shall be taken to make sure the
    `tails-install-iuk` user may read the resulting files)
* Else, point at full upgrade documentation.
* Shutdown the network.
* Remount the system partition read-write.
* Perform the update using the files provided by the "target files
  downloader and verifier".
* Tell the user the upgrade process is finished, and they *MUST*
  immediately reboot (due to system partition being left mounted
  read-write, 'cause we cannot remount it read-only once it's been
  mounted read-write).

### target file downloader and verifier

This program has the responsibility to download and verify a target
file, and make available to the caller either the verified target
file, or some error message.

* Takes as arguments: URI, size, hash type, hash value, destination
  path where the verified target file should be left, and
  possibly options.

Detailed executable scenarios describe and test the behaviour of this
piece of software in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]]. They may be found in the
`features/download_target_file` directory of the `tails-iuk`
[[contribute/Git]] repository, and run using the `pherkin
features/download_target_file` command.

### install an IUK

Once a user has downloaded an IUK, they must have it installed.

We need an installer for IUKs:

* **Input**: the path to an (already verified) IUK.
* **Output**: success or failure (with error message)

Installing an IUK should happen at the same time as normal Tails
operation, but very carefully, because we need to remount the boot
medium read-write.

* Verify the IUK is in a supported format.
* Remount the boot-medium read-write.
* Extract the IUK archive.
* Move stacked squashfs found in the IUK in place.
* Extract tarballs (`*.tar[.bz2]`) contained in the IUK, one after the
  other, sorted by ASCII order.
* Delete files that are listed in the `delete_files` control field.
* Append the new SquashFS diff file name to the `live/Tails.module`
  file, in the Tails system partition.

Detailed executable scenarios describe and test the behaviour of this
piece of software in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]]. They may be found in the `features/install`
directory of the `tails-iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository, and run
using the `pherkin features/install` command.

Resources:

* [Mozilla's updates
  processing](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Software_Update:Processing_Updates):
  building up some mechanism (such as their pending / applying /
  succeeded / failed status) to avoid retrying the same buggy update
  in a loop seems worth being considered.

### full update

The Tails USB installer is still in charge of performing full updates.
It must delete any `live/*.squashfs` file other than the one shipped
in the new ISO.

### signature verification

update-description file polling, parsing and verification will be
implemented in Perl. Signature verification will be made using
`GnuPG::Interface`'s `verify` method.

The verify method is run on a `GnuPG::Interface` object built with
`--homedir` pointed to a dedicated keyring directory, created at Tails
boot or ISO build time, that contains only the Tails signing public
OpenPGP key, which is assigned the minimum level of trust so that
GnuPG trusts the signatures made with the associated private key.

The `verify` method return value is `waitpid`'d for, and the GnuPG
child process exit status examined (zero means verification succeeded,
non-zero means verification failure).

# Code

* The bulk of the code needed to implement this design lives in the
  `tails-iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository.
* Integration work is being done in the `feature/incremental-upgrades`
  branch of the main Tails [[contribute/Git]] repository.

# Security

We want to use secure update tools such as TUF or Thandy once they are
ready enough for production wrt. our usecases. Unfortunately, this is
not the case yet, and we haven't the resources to seriously contribute
to TUF or Thandy.

Therefore, given we want to have some incremental update system
*soon*, the simple one we will ship in phase one will clearly be less
secure than TUF of Thandy against certain types of attacks.

However, we believe it is at least as secure as the way users are
currently able to manually check if a new Tails version is available,
to download and to verify it. Let's discuss this.

In what follows, we will call "the old Tails update system" the way
users are currently able, as of May 2012, to manually check if a new
Tails version is available, download target files, and verify
their integrity.

## Update-description files

Given:

* update-description files are published on <https://tails.boum.org/>;
  in the old Tails update system, this is the canonical place where
  Tails users can check for updates availability.
* The update-description downloader and verifier checks the SSL
  certificate presented by the server is valid (in phase one, using
  simple CA-based validation; using Monkeysphere instead would be
  a great future improvement).

Hence, the trust-path to availability and freshness of
update-description files is as good as with the old Tails
update system.

Moreover, update-description files are signed by the Tails OpenPGP
signing key. Then, the trust-path to the content of update-description
files is better than the old Tails update system.

## Target files

Given:

* Communication to HTTP servers that provide target files is made in
  cleartext (`http://`). No security is to be expected from
  transport-level security here. Mirrors are not trusted anyway.
* Availability, location, hash and size of target files are published
  in update-description files, towards wich some minimal trust-path
  was established (see above).
* In the old Tails update system, target files are signed by the Tails
  OpenPGP signing key.

As a consequence, the availability, freshness and content of target
files is protected as well as it is in the old Tails update system.

## Discussion

**Note**: the attack definitions bellow come straight from the [TUF
security
documentation](https://www.updateframework.com/wiki/Docs/Security)
(2012-05-04).

We believe the update system described on this page is at least as
secure as the old Tails update system.

### Arbitrary software installation

> An attacker installs anything they want on the client system.
> That is, an attacker can provide arbitrary files in response to
> download requests and the files will not be detected
> as illegitimate.

Both the old and new Tails update systems are immune to this attack,
as long as the trust-path to the update-description file is not
broken, and OpenPGP signatures on the target files are carefully
verified. We have seen above why we believe the trust-path to
update-description files to be at least as secure as the old Tails
update system. In the new Tails update system, OpenPGP signatures are
automatically verified, which provides this kind of protection even to
users would not have checked manually in the context of the old
update system.

### Rollback attacks

> An attacker presents a software update system with older files than
> those the client has already seen, causing the client to use files
> older than those the client knows about.

Given the update-description downloader and verifier checks the
version of the proposed updates against the version of the currently
running system, the update system described on this page is immune to
this attack.

### Indefinite freeze attacks

> An attacker continues to present a software update system with the
> same files the client has already seen. The result is that the
> client does not know that new files are available.

Both with the old and new Tails update systems, mounting such an
attack requires either to take control of the Tails website or to
break the SSL/TLS connection between the client and the server.

The move to a secure update system, such as TUF, would make this
stronger, thanks to short-lived signatures on meta-data.

### Endless data attacks

> An attacker responds to a file download request with an endless
> stream of data, causing harm to clients (e.g. a disk partition
> filling up or memory exhaustion).

The old Tails update system offers no protection at all against
performing this class of attacks, so the new one cannot do worse.
However, the new Tails update system, by including the expected size
of the target files in the set of meta-data verified before
downloading them, opens the possibility for the target files
downloader and verifier to avoid downloading more data than expected;
also, the update-description files downloader and verifier could avoid
downloading update-description files bigger than some
reasonable constant.

### Slow retrieval attacks

> An attacker responds to clients with a very slow stream of data that
> essentially results in the client never continuing the
> update process.

The old Tails update system offers no protection at all against this
class of attacks, so the new one cannot do worse. However, one change
brought by the new Tails update system is that we control the programs
used to download update-description files and target files; hence, we
could set timeouts on download operations so that, at least, the user
can be made aware of what is happening.

### Extraneous dependencies attacks

> An attacker indicates to clients that in order to install the
> software they wanted, they also need to install unrelated software.
> This unrelated software can be from a trusted source but may have
> known vulnerabilities that are exploitable by the attacker.

In the old Tails update system, changing the list of needed files
could be done by taking control of the Tails website or breaking the
client/server SSL/TLS connection; in the new Tails update system,
mounting this attack requires being able to sign a modified
update-description file with the Tails OpenPGP signing key instead,
which is most probably harder.

### Mix-and-match attacks

> An attacker presents clients with a view of a repository that
> includes files that never existed together on the repository at the
> same time. This can result in, for example, outdated versions of
> dependencies being installed.

The list of needed target files to perform an update, along with their
hashes, is available in a single location, that is in an
update-description file; therefore, we believe the update system
described on this page to be immune to mix-and-match attacks.

### Wrong software installation

> An attacker provides a client with a trusted file that is not the
> one the client wanted.

The old Tails update system does not protect against this attack:
a mirror can replace an ISO file and its detached OpenPGP signature
with an obsolete pair of files, renamed to match the expected file
names of the new release. Given some released versions of Tails
shipped a dysfunctional "security warning if update is available"
system, many users would probably not notice.

The new Tails update system is as secure, wrt. wrong software
installation attacks, as the trust-path to update-description files
are. Breaking this is clearly harder than renaming a pair of files on
a mirror controlled by an attacker, so the new Tails update system is
more secure than the old one against wrong software installation.

### Malicious mirrors preventing updates

> An attacker in control of one repository mirror is able to prevent
> users from obtaining updates from other, good mirrors.

In both the old and new Tails update systems, mirrors are used for
target files only, as part of a DNS round-robin pool that contains
more than 6 members, so when retrying a failed download at a later
time, one is likely to land onto another mirror. We then believe both
the old and new Tails update system to be relatively safe from this
class of attacks, as long as failed downloads are tried again later.

### Vulnerability to key compromises

> An attacker who is able to compromise a single key or less than
> a given threshold of keys can compromise clients. This includes
> relying on a single online key (such as only being protected by SSL)
> or a single offline key (such as most software update systems use to
> sign files).

Both the old and new Tails update systems are vulnerable to this class
of attacks, due to the reliance on the Tails OpenPGP signing key.
The future move to a secure update system such as TUF or Thandy will
fix this.

## Privilege separation

The default Live user (`amnesia`) runs the update frontend and:

* is allowed to run a `/usr/local/sbin/network-shutdown` script, using
  passwordless sudo, as root.
* is allowed to run the `tails-install-iuk` program, with any
  arguments, using passwordless sudo, as the `tails-install-iuk` user.
* is allowed to run the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` program, with any
  argument, using passwordless sudo, as the
  `tails-iuk-get-target-file` user.
* is allowed to run `tails-iuk-mktemp-get-target-file`, using
  passwordless sudo, as the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` user.

The `tails-install-iuk` user is allowed to run, using passwordless
sudo, every command required by its task (currently: `chmod`, `cp`,
`mkdir`, `mktemp`, `mount`, `rm` and `tar`). It is a member of the
`tails-iuk-get-target-file` group, which allows it to read the files
downloaded by the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` program.

# Research

## Secure update

* [TUF: The Update Framework](https://www.updateframework.com/)
* [Thandy specification](https://gitweb.torproject.org/thandy.git/blob_plain/HEAD:/specs/thandy-spec.txt)

## Stacking squashfs images

Tails filesystem is already using `aufs` to provide a read-write filesystem on
top of the read-only `squashfs` image.

This system could probably be extended to support mounting multiple `squashfs`
filesystems on top of each others. Upgrades would be `squashfs` images with only
the files that have been modified since the previous releases. This handles file
deletions.

Shipping upgrades could be as simple as shipping those extra `squashfs` images.

Debian live supports such stacking already: see in `live-boot(7)` the
part about `/live/filesystem.module`.

Stacking squashfs images like this would still lack a way of upgrading the
kernel and the syslinux. This should also be handled by the automated upgrade
process.

### Initial test

Here is a test. First the procedure to create the *delta* squashfs image, to be
done as `root`:

    mkdir /mnt/tails-0.7.1
    mkdir /mnt/tails-0.7.2
    mount -o loop tails-i386-0.7.1.iso /mnt/tails-0.7.1
    mount -o loop tails-i386-0.7.2.iso /mnt/tails-0.7.2
    mkdir /mnt/tails-0.7.1-root
    mkdir /mnt/tails-0.7.2-root
    mount -o loop /mnt/tails-0.7.1/live/filesystem.squashfs /mnt/tails-0.7.1-root
    mount -o loop /mnt/tails-0.7.2/live/filesystem.squashfs /mnt/tails-0.7.2-root

    mkdir /mnt/upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2
    mount -t tmpfs tmpfs /mnt/upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2

    mkdir /mnt/union
    mount -t aufs -o br=/mnt/upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2=rw:/mnt/tails-0.7.1-root=ro none /mnt/union
    rsync -avP --delete-after /mnt/tails-0.7.2-root/ /mnt/union/

    mksquashfs /mnt/upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2 upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2.squashfs

Compressed size (using default gzip compression) is 82 MB.

Not bad, and the new kernel is included, which can probably be avoided.

Now, let's upgrade an USB stick:

    mkdir /media/disk/live
    cp   /mnt/tails-0.7.1/live/filesystem.squashfs \
         upgrade-0.7.1-to-0.7.2.squashfs \
         /mnt/tails/0.7.2/live/vmlinuz \
         /mnt/tails/0.7.2/live/initrd.img \
       /media/disk/live

Then fiddle with GRUB or EXTLINUX.

On boot, the new squashfs gets properly integrated. *Whiteouts* are not
working. It looks like the `live-boot` 2.x mount options miss the `wh` attribute.
But wait, booting with `break=top` and modifying `/scripts/live` to replace
`roopt=rr` by `roopt=rr+wh` is enough to do the trick! Therefore,
we've added the `wh` attribute to `live-boot` 3.x.

Initial test is pretty conclusive!

## Discarded options

See the [[page about discarded options|todo/incremental_upgrades/archive]].

# Random ideas for future improvements

These are not worth creating tickets yet, as it's not even clear these
changes are useful enough to put time in it.

### Packaging could be more self-contained

Move `/etc/sudoers.d/zzz_update` and IUK-related user creation from
the Tails main Git repository to the `tails-iuk` Debian package, so
that it's more self-contained and easier to test.

### Button for aborting upgrade cleanly

### Compute and display ETA

### Multi-step incremental upgrade

E.g. 0.11 boots after 0.11.1 and 0.11.2 are out. Tails fetches
https://tails.boum.org/update/v1/Tails/0.11/i386/stable/updates.yml,
that shall contain an incremental upgrade path with two target files:
the 0.11 to 0.11.1 IUK, and the 0.11.1 to 0.11.2 IUK. The updater
would download these two files and install the two IUKs in the
correct order.

### sharing update material

Once the incremental update has been applied, I may be proposed to
save a copy of the target files to a location of my choosing.

### allow one to download target files in the clear

The downloader program could provide an opt-in way to have the
download happen in the clear, that is without going through the Tor
network. It looks doable given it's a separate process: we may run it
as a dedicated user, and reuse the `clearnet` infrastructure
implemented for the Unsafe Browser.

### "Retry with new circuit" button

Circuit throughput varies wildly, and since this is a large download,
it'll quickly wear out users' patience if a bad circuit is picked.
Or maybe this can happen behind the scenes, e.g.:  Automatically
switch circuit every X minutes or Y% progress? That could even make
fingerprinting the download on the Tor client <-> Entry Node side of
the pipe a bit more difficult, for whatever that's worth.

[[!tag priority/elevated]]
