[[!meta title="Intercept interviews"]]

We are collecting here summaries and insights from intercept interviews
with Tails users.
[Intercept Interviews](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/framework-elements/intercept-interviews/)
are designed to increase understanding and dialogue through a series of
quick questions that take no more than 10 to 15 minutes of dialogue.

The email address of the interviewees are stored in the internal Git
repo: `contacts/intercept_interviews.mdwn`.

The names of the interviewees are changed but loosely related in terms
of gender, language, and age. For list of popular given names see
[[!wikipedia List_of_most_popular_given_names desc="Wikipedia: List of
most popular given names"]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

HOWTO
=====

Interview script
----------------

- Introduction
  - Who I am, what I am doing, and why I'm conducting the interview.
  - You can answer my questions to the extend that you feel comfortable
    and stop at any moment.
  - We want to keep this information publicly available for contributors
    of the project but in generic terms, removing personally
    identifiable information.

- The user
  - Who are you? What do you do?

- Tails & you:
  - How did you come to be interested in Tails and get started?
  - What is your level of expertise with Tails?
  - What do you use it for? How often?

- Pros & cons:
  - What are the three things that you like the most in Tails?
  - What are the three things that you dislike the most in Tails?

- Good bye:
  - Thank you!
  - Would you give us your email if you want to keep in touch for future
    questions or go deeper? Emails are stored encrypted and only
    accessible to the core contributors.

Template email for validating the output
----------------------------------------

> Thank you so much for taking some time to answer my questions about
> Tails the other day!
>
> I'm sending you here what I plan to store in our public working
> documents on our website. Please correct me if I misunderstood
> something or if you want me to remove some bits.

Interviews
==========

<a id="adam"></a>

Adam, March 2017
----------------

Adam is an investigative journalist working in an organization raising
awareness around State surveillance and digital freedom in Western
Europe. He has been using lots of Tor in different environments for
years.

As part of his work, he uses Tails both fully amnesiac and with
persistence. He has dedicated hardware for running Tails: a modified
ThinkPad X60 with many parts removed and only minimal input and output
interfaces.

He uses Tails to create, edit, and sanitize sensitive documents before
sharing them with other people or publishing them. He doesn't want to
open these documents on his regular operating system. Sometimes he
doesn't use Tails for 3 months and then use it everyday during 1-2 weeks
to work on a specific story.

He also shares his secure machine with other people by his side to
review or edit these sensitive documents instead of having to send these
documents online. All-in-all he uses little Tor from Tails and use it
more for data isolation.

Maybe Qubes OS does more than Tails against exploits but Tails is a
cheaper and more practical way for him to create a secure machine: it's
cheaper hardware and has an easier learning curve. He also feels better
having a hardware isolation instead of the virtual isolation provided by
Qubes OS. When he wants no network activity on his X60 he unplugs the
Ethernet cable and that's it.

Things he likes:

- He trusts Tails because he knows personally some of the developers;
  the same could apply to Debian.
- Tails has been around for a while and is widely uses. It is well
  connected to the rest of the Tor community and has received more
  exposure.
- He is used to Debian and feels comfortable hacking on the Debian base
  of Tails when needed. He doesn't really know RPM and that's another
  drawback of Qubes OS for him.
- He's happy to see *OnionShare* in Tails now.

Things he dislikes:

- His hardened X60 has a 32-bit processor and he won't be able to run
  Tails 3.0 on it anymore.
- He finds it painful not to have the keyboard for his language listed
  in the short list of keyboards in Tails Greeter.
- He had troubles trying to install additional packages in Tails and
  instead reinstalled them every time. He wanted to use `scantailor`, a
  post-processing tool for scanned pages, and `tesseract-ocr`, an
  optical character recognition tool.
- He had troubles displaying local files in Tor Browser and thinks that
  it's impossible to browser for anything under `file:///` in Tor
  Browser.
- He had a hard time finding a direct download with the new Installation
  Assistant: *"I want a nerd link!"*

<a id="alex"></a>

Alex, March 2017
----------------

Alex is a journalist working for a big news room in Western Europe.

She got an authorization from her network administrator to have two
machines at work: the official Windows machine from where she can access
the company's back office and her own machine running Debian and
sometimes Tails.

They have a partnership with a whistleblowing platform and when working
on their documents they do everything from Tails.

Things she likes:

- The fact that Tails is all-in-one. For example, she sometimes sets up
  a Tails USB stick for a few colleagues in the "war room" while working
  a sensitive paper and they have all they need to review and edit
  documents or do some additional research.
- Qubes OS is a nice idea but Tails remains more straight-forward and
  you can use it immediately. You can clone a new key for someone and
  that's all they need.
- Tails Installer in Debian! For example it's super useful to manually
  upgrade a relatively old version or to install a new USB stick for
  someone without having to restart on Tails.
- The installation documentation is much better now.

Things she doesn't like:

- She misses a screen locker. For example, to have a break during long
  working sessions while working on sensitive documents.
- GMail doesn't work with Icedove and TorBirdy. So you have to switch to
  the Unsafe Browser to connect to GMail.

<a id="jeanne"></a>

Jeanne, February 2017
---------------------

Jeanne has been working as an independent journalist for 5-6 years. She
writes stories that she sells to many different newspapers. She is also
active in a not-for-profit resource center and coworking space for
independent journalists in her city where she advocates for privacy to
the local press. She runs Ubuntu on her PC and can handle it all-right
with some help from her geek friends.

She started using Tails about one year ago, helped out by a local
privacy and free software advocate from which she cloned a USB stick.
One of her colleague got his computer seized and she realized that
having at least her hard disk encrypted was a way of guaranteeing her
rights to privacy as a journalists in front of the police. Some of her
sources were also scared of being monitored and explicitly asked for
security protocols. She decided to get herself trained in privacy tools
to be able to "lead the dance" and propose reasonable protocols
to sources in the future herself.

She uses Tails occasionally when the story or the source requires it.
She is not using Tails outside of her work.

Things she likes:

- Tails comes as a package of privacy tools with no need to configure
  things manually. She had bad experiences and misconfigured some
  privacy tools on her computer in the past. Tails is like a "paranoid
  mode" by default.
- MAT
- She hopes that she could could do better at segmenting her time and
  use Tails to help her focus on a specific task.

Things she doesn't like:

- The terminology around "persistence" was difficult to understand. She
  talks about "storage area" ("zone de stockage" in French).
- She had trouble learning how to start Tails from her PC.
- She finds it very hard to combine the use of Tails with the heavy
  multitasking implied by her work: during a single day she works in
  parallel on many different stories with many different clients and
  sources. She runs on a very short budget and cannot afford having a
  second computer dedicated to Tails.
- Once, she had troubles opening her persistence because the keyboard
  layout was different than when she configured it.
- Once, she lost the draft of a story because she had no persistence.
- Once, she tried to use Tails for communicating with a source but
  failed in doing so.
- When getting started she found the documentation on the desktop hard
  to apprehend because it was using too technical terms (like "ISO").
  She thinks that the documentation should be more accessible to less
  technical people as a pedagogical tool: since she is making the effort
  to getting into Tails, she is ready to read and learn.
