[[!meta title="Personas"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

# Big picture

This is about [[!tails_ticket 11162]].

# External resources about personas

  - General
    - [Tamara Adlin and John Pruitt, _The Essential Persona Lifecycle_](http://gen.lib.rus.ec/search.php?req=The+Essential+Persona+Lifecycle)
    - [Personas on usability.gov](http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/personas.html)
    - [Focus on the Job, Not the Customer](https://blog.intercom.com/when-personas-fail-you/)
    - [User Profile Randomizer](https://github.com/seamustuohy/user_profile_randomizer)
    - [Describing personas](https://medium.com/@indiyoung/describing-personas-af992e3fc527)
  - Privacy and security
    - [Gus Andrew's User Personas for Privacy and Security](https://medium.com/@gusandrews/user-personas-for-privacy-and-security-a8b35ae5a63b#.8lyxpkom4)
    - [AccessNow's A First Look at Digital Security](https://www.accessnow.org/a-first-look-at-digital-security/)
      is formatted a bit like personas.
    - [Developing Personas from the Internet Freedom Needfinding Framework](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/framework-elements/developing-personas/)
    - [USABLE.tools](https://usable.tools/personas/)
    - [Waxing Poetic with SwiftOnSecurity](https://swiftonsecurity.tumblr.com/post/98675308034/a-story-about-jessica)
  - Accessibility and inclusion
    - [Designing for the extremes (or why your average user doesn’t exist)](https://sugoru.com/2013/07/14/designing-for-the-extremes/)
    - [Personas for Accessible UX](https://www.slideshare.net/whitneyq/personas-for-accessible-ux)
    - [Inclusive Design at Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/design/inclusive)

# Data sources

- [*Internews*: Digital Security and Journalists, A SnapShot of
  Awareness and Practice in Pakistan](https://www.internews.org/sites/default/files/resources/Internews_PK_Secure_Journalist_2012-08.pdf).

- [*Digital Rights Foundation*: Digital (In)security of Journalists in
  Pakistan](https://digitalrightsfoundation.pk/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Report-Digi-Insecurity-of-Journos.pdf).

- [*Mozilla*: 10 Fascinating Things We Learned When We Asked The World ‘How
  Connected Are You?’](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2017/11/01/10-fascinating-things-we-learned-when-we-asked-the-world-how-connected-are-you/).

- [*Kevin Gallagher & Nasir Memon*, New Me: Understanding Expert and
  Non-Expert Perceptions and Usage of the Tor Anonymity
  Network](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/soups2017/soups2017-gallagher.pdf):
  has some interesting insights on the mental model of Tor for
  non-expert users.

- [*Ruogu Kang et al.*, “My Data Just Goes Everywhere:” User Mental
  Models of the Internet and  Implications for Privacy and
  Security](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/soups2015/soups15-paper-kang.pdf).

- [*Rick Wash & Emilee Rader*, Too Much Knowledge? Security Beliefs and
  Protective Behaviors Among United States Internet
  Users](http://www.rickwash.com/papers/security-survey.pdf): studies a
  large representative sample of United States Internet users about
  different causal beliefs related to computer security, and about the
  actions they regularly undertake to protect their computers.

- [*Javier Garza Ramos*, Journalist Security in the Digital
  World](http://www.cima.ned.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/CIMA-Journalist-Digital-Tools-03-01-15.pdf)
  is a survey of 154 journalists worldwide on their digital security
  practices.

- [Jennifer R. Henrichsen](https://www.asc.upenn.edu/people/jennifer-r-henrichsen) is
  doing a research with journalists and digital security trainers to
  shed light on journalists' perceptions toward digital security
  technologies, including motivations to adopt and barriers to adoption.
  In March 2018, the results of her research were not published yet.

- [EFF: Privacy By Practice, Not Just By Policy: A System Administrator
  Advocating for Student Privacy](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2017/03/privacy-practice-not-just-policy-system-administrator-advocating-student-privacy)
  is an interesting story about the use of Chromebooks in schools and
  the internal resistance about its threat to privacy.

- [Tails-project: Regarding USB sticks for domestic violence
  survivors](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-project/2017-March/000757.html)

# Collective brainstorming in August 2016

Use cases:

- A small group of English-speaking journalists use Tails to analyze an
  archive of leaked documents and prepare articles about them.

- A well-established music teacher uses Tails to bypass the software and
  network limitations on their professional laptop.

- Someone living in a controlled housing uses Tails to avoid having all
  their Internet browsing monitored by the staff.

- A political scientist in Egypt uses Tails to send their findings to
  Germany while avoiding State surveillance.

- A woman who lives with someone abusing her uses Tails to communicate
  stealthily and without living traces on the home computer.

- A political activist uses Tails to coordinate with their affinity
  group and organize a demonstration.

- A person suffering from cancer uses Tails to learn about their disease
  while avoiding their employer learning about their condition.

- A group of people preparing a plea for defending activists in court
  uses Tails to prepare the plea and store the documents in a safe
  place.

- A free software contributor uses Tails to translate the security tools
  used by their community into Bahasa Indonesia.

- A whistle-blower uses Tails to store and edit to-be-leaked documents
  securely.

- A lawyer uses Tails to communicate with their client in a secure and
  anonymous fashion.

- A Tails developer uses Tails to develop Tails and understand better
  the struggling of users.

- A university student uses Tails to publish publicly-funded but
  copyrighted scientific papers online.

- Union workers use Tails to coordinate about labor struggle over their
  company's network.

- A Russian tourist uses Tails to access their online bank account
  without getting their credential stolen.

- A nomadic person with no personal laptop uses Tails to carry the same
  computing environment and personal documents around.

- A abuse contact uses Tails in order to communicate with survivors
  contacting them.

- A person without their own Internet access uses Tails to use an
  uncensored Internet.

- A teenager uses Tails to escape parental control filter.

- A group of people use Tails to write a book together and publish it.

- A scientist uses Tails to report and transcribe interviews while
  preserving the personal identifying information of the interviewees.

- Webmasters of a cop-watching website use Tails to reduce their chance
  of being caught while reporting on police violence.

- A photographer uses Tails to store and work on pictures before
  publication.

- A person without the need for a big storage uses Tails as their main
  operating system to have more privacy.

<a id="2017-08"></a>

# Collective process from August 2017

Summary of a 2 hours session we did with 12 core contributors.

This process is inspired by the workshop described in _The Essential
Persona Lifecycle_ by Tamara Adlin and John Pruitt, Chapter 4 *Persona
conception and gestation*.

- General explanation of what personas are and why they are useful (15')

- Everybody prepares, in silent, sticky notes describing a user and their goal. (15')

  For example:

  - "*Women that go through domestic violence and wants to escape from that.*"
  - "*Webmasters of a sensitive website that wants to hack on it.*"

- All together we assimilate these sticky notes and the ones identified
  in August 2016 by *types of users*. (30')

  We start with predefined categories based on last year's output and
  adding new ones or splitting existing ones as needed. There should be
  no more than 10 stick notes per category.

  - Predefined categories:
    - Activist
    - Censorship evader
    - Contributor
    - Darknet customer
    - Information freedom fighter
    - Nomadic
    - Privacy geek
    - Surveilled at home

  - Final categories:
    - Activist
    - Censorship evader
    - Contributor
    - Darknet customer
    - Evil people
    - Information freedom fighter
    - Journalist or researcher
    - Law enforcement
    - Nomadic
    - People helping others in shit
    - People we don't want to help
    - Privacy geek
    - Sensitive content creator
    - Surveilled at home
    - Surveilled at work

- The facilitator takes pictures of the resulting assimilation and
  removes the user categories.

- All together we assimilate again the same stick notes and group them
  by *user goals* (45').

  User goals are short sentences starting with "*I want...*" or "*I need...*".
  There should be no more than 10 stick notes per category. Sticky notes
  that fit in more than one goal can be duplicated.

- All together we summarize these goals by identifying main goals and
  subgoals. (10')

  - Final goals:

    **A. I want to hide information about myself**

      - I want to keep content & information secret from my government
      - I want to keep information secret from my family and close people
      - I want to access sensitive information stealthily
      - I want to hide my identity
      - I want to hide my location and identity
      - I want to hide my location
      - I don't want to raise suspicion

    **B. I want to communicate and collaborate securely**

      - I want to communicate securely with known peers
      - I want to communicate securely with unknown peers
      - I want to communicate with others who are under surveillance
      - We want to share and work on documents privately

    **C. I want to store information safely**

      - I need to safely store my data
      - I want to edit or anonymize my data

    **D. I want to leave no trace on the computer**

      - I need to use a computer that is not mine

    **E. I want information to be free**

      - I want to access censored information online
      - I want to publish sensitive information

    **F. I don't want my data to be gathered by corporations and governments**

      - I want to understand people using Tails
      - I just want more privacy

# Skeletons

After this collective session, the core team working on the personas (3
people) started preparing skeletons, rough descriptions of each persona,
based on the main goals identified earlier. Each persona is primarily
focused on a single main goal but also corresponds to some subgoals of
other categories.

On top of demographics, background, and technical skills information,
our framework includes holistic security and threat modeling information
(based on the [Personas Framework for Internet
Freedom](http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/framework-elements/developing-personas/)
developed by SecondMuse):

  1. Name (genderneutral)
  2. Occupation
  3. Background
  4. Motivations
  5. Challenges and threats
  6. Communications
  7. Goals
  8. Use cases
  9. Definition of security
  10. Key Technologies used regularly
    a. Features used in Tails
    b. Features used outside of Tails
  11. Threat perception
  12. Security precautions

<a id="kim"></a>

## Kim, the surveilled at home

- **Background**

  - Kim is a gay youth from Nigeria that has been institutionalized.
  - Kim has been abused at home.
  - Kim is using a shared a computer.

- **Motivations**

  - Kim is searching for help and support groups online and also tries
    to find solidarity.
  - Kim wants to feel normal.
  - Kim wants to avoid surveillance from mentors in the institution they
    lives in.
  - Kim does not want to leave traces on the shared computer and prefers
    to hide their identity by accessing information stealthily.

- **Challenges and threats**:

  - The computer room is crowded
  - Can't meet with support groups openly and has to do it online
  - Surveillance from mentors
  - Time is limited
  - Fear of previous abusers
  - Worried about saving information safely
  - Needs to know keyboard shortcuts for switching applications in case
    somebody walks behind them
  - Needs safe storage for email addresses and nicknames
  - Needs access to books online
  - Needs to use a pseudonym
  - Needs a stealth or dedicated email address
  - Needs to store data in the cloud or an encrypted device in case Kim
    gets searched

- **Communications**

  - Online support groups: forums, websites
  - Known peers: chat, email
  - Unknown peers: chat, email, forums
  - Psychologist online: forums, websites

- **Goals**

  A.  I want to hide information about myself
    - I want to keep content & information secret from my government
    - I want to keep information secret from my family and close people
    - I want to access sensitive information stealthily
    - I want to hide my identity
    - I want to hide my location and identity
    - I want to hide my location
    - I don't want to raise suspicion

  B.  I want to communicate and collaborate securely
    - I want to communicate securely with known peers
    - I want to communicate securely with unknown peers

  D.  I want to leave no trace on the computer
    - I need to use a computer that is not mine

  E.  I want information to be free
    - I want to access censored information online

<!--

- **Use cases**

- **Definition of security**

- **Key technologies used regularly**

  a. Features used in Tails

  b. Features used outside of Tails

- **Threat perception**

- **Security precautions**

-->

### Notes from the [[May 2018 monthly meeting|contribute/meetings/201805]]

- Windows camouflage
  - *emmapeel: kim would have liked windows camouflage*

- Institutionalized
  - *u: "that has been institutionalized" -> do you mean s/he has been in psychiatry ?*
  - *emmapeel: i think in this context institutionalized could also be
    on an orphanage*

- Bitcoin
  - *emmapeel: to have his own savings outside of the institution*
  - *emmapeel: its on my private idaho*
  - *emmapeel: specially if kim is underage, they are not going to let
    him handle his savings*

- Alison
  - Ask Alison from Tor about the story she told emmapeel and sajolida.

- Feeling normal
  - *masha: I dislike the "Kim wants to feel normal", I'd rather put
    "feel safe"*
  - *masha: well, when you're queer of color, you're not "normal" and
    the world reminds you every day, so what you want is the end of
    homophobia/racism for example. And the "want to be normal" might
    merge with being invisible, and put everything too queer being
    closed doors.*
  - *masha: maybe the point is that "normal" leaves way too much room
    for interpretation*

- Homeless
  - *emmapeel: i just want to say that a very high percentage of
    homeless youth in the world is queer. they get kicked out from home
    for being queer*
  - *emmapeel: but the gay kids go on the streets and they get
    institutionalized*

- Computer room
  - *u: i think the Kim persona sounds very stressful (limited time,
    mentor surveillance...). and surveilled at home can be much less
    extreme than this case.*
  - *u: i think for example the fact that the computer room is crowded
    is an extra stress factor which we could make a bit less extreme by
    writing "the computer room is sometimes croweded"*
  - *sajolida: an option would be to add that they sometimes also borrow
    the computer of a trusted friend inside the institution*
  - *u: that could be an option (trusted friend's computer)*
  - *emmapeel: if kim has no computer, and uses a computer of a friend,
    is good to have tails...*

- Too many threats
  - *u: Kim's case has two angles: the surveillance at home by mentors
    and peers, and the sharia in nigeria as well as internet censorship*
  - *u: sajolida: so kim's case actually has three angles and if we
    would replace kim by someone who lives with their abuser, there
    would not be the whole censorship and legal part*
  - *u: i could imagine to have one person who is either
    institutionalized or living with their abuser and one gay youth in
    nigeria, but not necessarily under surveillance at home*
  - *sajolida: u: if we keep a gay youth in Nigeria who is not
    instituationalized, their issues would be censorship circumvention,
    State surveillance, and identity management, right?*
  - *sajolida: then it would look very much like Riou*
  - *emmapeel: yeah maybe he could have a blog....*
  - *sajolida: but maybe you're right and we should refocus Kim to be
    more strongly about surveillance at home and not so much about other
    things as well*
  - *sajolida: so remove their societal and State oppression and stick to
    the domestic oppression*

- Religious family
  - *sajolida: Kim could be gay in a super religious US family for
    example*
  - *u: fine with me, yes, gay/trans in a religious family in any
    fanatic religious family.*

- Transsexual
  - *spriver: (how about transsexual, that'd be me)*
  - *emmapeel: yeah if you are trans you also have to get out*

- Resources
  - <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Own_Private_Idaho>
  - <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Nigeria>
  - <http://internetfreedom.secondmuse.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/if_ugandaLGBT_Final.pdf>
  - <http://the-ipf.com/2016/06/09/homosexuality-nigeria-young-lgbt/>
  - <http://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/Durso-Gates-LGBT-Homeless-Youth-Survey-July-2012.pdf>
  - *spriver: I can share a bit of my story though*
  - *groente: u: ah, a friend of mine is working on lgbt rights in
    uganda iirc, i can ask her for contacts*

<a id="cris"></a>

## Cris, the sensitive information gatherer

- **Background**

  - Cris is a Mexican refugee based in the United States.
  - Cris is an investigative journalist doing high stake reporting on
    the government, the mafia, and drug related trafficking and
    corruption.
  - Cris is visiting Mexico to interview locals and needs to get
    out of the country with the collected information and media safely.
  - Cris needs to communicate with journalistic partners and sources and
    to protect these communications as well as the identity of Cris'
    interview partners.
  - Cris needs to store and edit the collected information safely. They
    also need to keep metadata in order to prove the evidence.
    Furthermore they also need to send big videos files over the
    Internet for somebody else to edit it.

- **Motivations**

  - Publish information about corrupted politicians and harm they did.
  - Turn public opinion against these people.

- **Challenges and threats**

  - Access information
  - Publish under pseudonyms
  - Hide their location and identity
  - Stealth research by visiting journalists
  - Bring information outside of the country

- **Communications**

  - Local interviewees: leaking platform, mobile phone messaging
  - Journalistic partners: emails, mobile phone messaging
  - Publication: websites, cloud storage

- **Goals**

  A.  I want to hide information about myself
    - I want to keep content & information secret from my government
    - I want to access sensitive information stealthily
    - I want to hide my identity
    - I don't want to raise suspicion

  B.  I want to communicate and collaborate securely
    - I want to communicate securely with known peers
    - I want to communicate securely with unknown peers
    - I want to communicate with others who are under surveillance
    - We want to share and work on documents privately

  C.  I want to store information safely
    - I need to safely store my data
    - I want to edit or anonymize my data

  E.  I want information to be free
    - I want to publish sensitive information

<!--

- **Use cases**

- **Definition of security**

- **Key technologies used regularly**

  a. Features used in Tails

  b. Features used outside of Tails

- **Threat perception**

- **Security precautions**

-->

### Notes from the [[June 2018 monthly meeting|contribute/meetings/201806]]

- Public opinion
  - *u: I would formulate this sentence differently: "Turn public opinion against these people."
    maybe "inform the public about the wrongdoings of these people"*
  - *u: well, i just realize the previous sentence is a bit similar*
  - *u: maybe "make it possible to legally accuse these people / put
    them in front of a court" ?*

- Pseudonym
  - *intrigeri: something is not clear to me: Cris is a journalist who
    publishes under a pseudonym, right? I have no clue how common
    practice it is. Have you?*
  - *sajolida: i agree with you. maybe Cris is working under their
    realname and hiding what they are working on only until it's
    published.*
  - *intrigeri: indeed, that would relate to many more real-life cases
    I'm aware of but I don't know the press world well.*

- Refugee
  - *u: as cris is a mexican refugee i'm unsure how they can enter
    mexico*
  - *sajolida: i used "refugee" but i think that Cris might just be too
    scared to live in Mexico (bad stuff happens there to journalists)
    but not legally prohibited to enter Mexico*
  - *intrigeri: s/is Mexican refugee/is a Mexican refugee/*
  - *u: ok, then maybe we shoudl use another word than refugee?
    emigrant/immigrant?*
  - *sajolida: ok for replacing "refugee" (we'll find a better word
    elsewhere)*

- Hide information about myself
  - *drebs: why is "hide information about myself" different from "hide
    my identity"?*
  - *u: i think hiding your identity is basically only about your name
    while information about yourself can be many other things like where
    you live, where you currently are etc.*
  - *sajolida: under "hide information about myself" we also put
    location for example*

- Too extreme
  - *intrigeri: my "raw subjectivity" comment: it's an important persona
    and one of the things we know at least some people use for. It's an
    extreme/minority one though. Thankfully the other personas balance
    things so the draft set of personas does not err to far on the
    "Tails for 2000 people" side :)*
  - *intrigeri: (because there's so many life/death threats on the same
    person & relationships)*
  - *sajolida: but Cris could also be anybody carrying sensitive
    information across borders for example*
  - *u: but cris need not be a journalist, they can be a human rights
    advocate, diplomat, doctor*
  - *u: i don't think this persona is extreme, but it's maybe more
    rare.*

- Resources
  - <https://www.forensic-architecture.org/case/ayotzinapa/>
  - Gaby Weber is a German journalist and has researched quite a bit on
    nazi past in Argentina, involving Mercedes Benz. She uses Tails.

<a id="riou"></a>

## Riou, the protest organizer

- **Background**

  - Riou is a student in Hong Kong, who participates in the Umbrella
    movement.
  - Riou organizes a public massive protest against new government
    policies and laws. The organizers need to be stealthy and anonymous,
    but the protest needs to be public and advertised. The organizers
    need to send out strategic information to the press and to the
    public so that citizens actually know where to show up. In order to
    publish this information they use websites which are not in the
    country, so that the government cannot shut them down.
  - During the protest they leave their phones at home. They are doing
    most of their communication beforehand. Although they take photos
    and videos of the protests and try to publish this information on
    websites which are censored within the country. They got to get it
    online as soon as it's produced on social media and they also want
    to stream the protest and speeches. They might want to do that on
    devices that are not theirs, so that they can hide their involvement
    in the organization of this protest.

- **Motivations**

  - Riou wants to lead social change in their country without being put
    themselves under the spotlight.
  - Riou wants information to be free in their country: they want to
    speak freely and they want others to have access to uncensored
    information.

- **Challenges and threats**

  - Use networks
  - Access information online
  - Use applications that the government is not monitoring
  - Use mesh applications

- **Communications**

  - Internal communications: chat, encrypted emails
  - External communications: censored websites

- **Goals**

  A.  I want to hide information about myself
    - I want to keep content & information secret from my government
    - I want to hide my identity
    - I want to hide my location
    - I don't want to raise suspicion

  B.  I want to communicate and collaborate securely
    - I want to communicate securely with known peers

  E.  I want information to be free
    - I want to access censored information online
    - I want to publish sensitive information

<!--

- **Use cases**

- **Definition of security**

- **Key technologies used regularly**

  a. Features used in Tails

  b. Features used outside of Tails

- **Threat perception**

- **Security precautions**

-->

### Notes from the [[July 2018 monthly meeting|contribute/meetings/201807]]

- Servers and censorship
  - *u: In order to publish this information they use websites which are
    not in the country, so that the government cannot shut them down. →
    we should write "not hosted on servers within the country"*
  - *u: Although they take photos and videos of the protests and try to
    publish this information on websites which are censored within the
    country.  → this sentence is a bit unclear*

- Country & context
  - *groente: i find it hard to comment because i know close to nothing
    about the local context there*
  - *groente: i would argue for choosing another country where we do
    actually know the local context and can make a realistic persona*
  - *groente: idk, sofar it reads rather emea-minded (Europe &
    Middle-East)*
  - *sajolida: maybe i should have a look at a list of hard-core
    censorship countries or ask OONI for countries/contextes and maybe
    even contacts*
  - *groente: would turkey be a good alternative?*
  - *sajolida: Iran would be another easy choice*
  - *u: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017%E2%80%9318_Iranian_protests
    or this*

- Umbrella movement
  - *sajolida: by the way, is the Umbrella movement still a thing?
    should we made it more movement-agnostic?*
  - *u: no it's not a thing anymore*

- Streaming
  - *u: They got to get it online as soon as it's produced on sociadia
    and they also want to stream the protest and speeches.  → They got
    to get it online and on social media as soon as it's produced. They
    also want to stream the protest and speeches.*
  - *emmapeel: this picture taking and streaming sounds a bit
    temerarious i think....*
  - *nodens: "They also want to stream the protest and speeches" ->
    isn't "stream" a bit misleading ? I doubt they'd try to do it live
    (if they want to do that, that would probably be both difficult and
    risky)*
  - *u: maybe "record" and later publish would be better*
  - *nodens: (the "record then publish" doesn't change the goal)*

- Device during the protest
  - *emmapeel: yes yes i see riou could do with a little hideout with
    good connection, where the protestors will go ad give their memory
    cards.*
  - *sajolida: it's unclear to me with what device their take pictures
    and record, since they also leave their phones at home: are they
    using dedicates phone? other people's phone? offline cameras?*
  - *u: yeah maybe we need to say that they actually do use their phones
    or that they use a video camera*
  - *nodens: I would say any of those three, I don't think this has any
    influence on the challenges - or rather, the challenges seem
    irrelevant in tails context*
  - *emmapeel: maybe riou wants to have some hidden camera o their
    clothing*

- Work before and after the protest
  - *sajolida: so their work with Tails could only occur before or after
    the protests, right?*
  - *u: yes, or in some press center*
  - *sajolida: so maybe we should get into more details regarding the
    preparation and follow up of the protest, and leave aside the
    technical details of their opsec during the protest, no?*
  - *u: sajolida: like at G20 people had such a press center → but this
    event would be too controversial to make into a persona*
  - *emmapeel: riou eeds backups too, for the team to share the
    different pictures like a mediagoblin or something*
  - *emmapeel: if the organizers communicate stealthily, maybe they can
    share the pictures with onionshare*
  - *emmapeel: maybe they have one of those canon cameras with hacked
    firmware and can encrypt the pictures when they are taken, just i
    case they get caught*

- Help other with censorship
  - *nodens: maybe another goal: "I want people to be able to easily
    access censored information" ? Or is that not part of the persona ?*
  - *sajolida: i think that Riou might be the kind of person has also
    helps other access censored information*
  - *nodens: the phrasing would probably need to be refined but the idea
    is that it is probably important for Kim that people in her/his
    county can read the infromation*
  - *sajolida: at least they are trying to spread censored information
    within their country*
  - *sajolida: so maybe Riou gives out Tails sticks during the
    protest!!*
  - *nodens: yeah or advertises about Tails at least*
  - *nodens: or organises workshops during the protest :D*
  - *sajolida: or gives out outreach material or translate Tails into
    their language, etc.*
  - *nodens: (but that would be probably dangerous too. You don't want
    to bring a laptop to this protest I guess)*
  - *groente: maybe riou runs a clandestine private bridge and wants to
    share this with fellow protesters?*
  - *nodens: also, printed material (user manual for instance)*
  - *nodens: Oh I got a new one - "I want to know which websites are
    censored in country" (a job for ONII Probe)*

- Technical level
  - *emmapeel: mahybe she is studying computer science*
  - *u: normal → power user i think*
  - *u: yeah, they are the more techie ones i think and have had a blog
    before and used twitter*
  - *sajolida: Riou look like one of these people we meet at the IFF,
    well versed in anti-censorship tools and advocacy but without being
    a Linux hacker either*
  - *emmapeel: riou will have a mac then! :S*
  - *sajolida: and likes glitter*
  - *u: and a apfelphone :)*
  - *nodens: "I want to be able to type without external keyboard on my
    Mac computer while using tails" ? ;)*

- Relationship with the press
  - *sajolida: does Riou work with journalists in their country? or the
    "we do our stuff and never talk to the press" kind of protesters?*
  - *nodens: I'd say Riou might want to communicate anonymously with the
    press*
  - *groente: answering that really requires knowledge of the local
    context*
  - *sajolida: are they only pushing stuff to the press or are they
    collaborating more with them?*
  - *u: i think they work with journalists. but if that protest was the
    G20 or some anticoal event in Germany, they would not*
  - *emmapeel: i think riou and her comrades should create a fictional
    character that talks with the press*
  - *emmapeel: maybe they work with international journalists, like from
    the guardian but not the ones in HongKong*

- Resources
  - *groente: i can ask the folks at hivos/ddp if they have any contacts
    in hong kong that could have a look at the persona*

<a id="derya"></a>

## Derya, the privacy advocate

- **Background**

  - Derya is a content writer for an e-commerce website.
  - Derya is a Turkish refugee living in Germany.
  - Derya contributes to free software projects in their free time. For
    example, they translate lots of software into Turkish.
  - Derya gives digital security trainings and advices to activist
    friends in Germany and Turkey.
  - Derya knows more than average about computers and the Internet but
    has no strong technical background.
  - Derya is very privacy concious. They use only free software on their
    personal computer but at work their job is to optimize the sells of
    their e-commerce company by analyzing what people buy most and why.

- **Motivations**

  - Derya is outraged by all kinds of privacy violations and knows that
    everybody is watched upon in one way or another.
  - Derya wants to contribute to free software projects from their place
    of work.
  - Derya wants to help activists in Turkey and Germany to hide their
    identities, communicate securely, and publish sensitive information.
  - Derya wants to help their family and friends in Turkey circumvent
    censorship.
  - Derya doesn't want the Turkish government to know that they are a
    digital security trainer.

- **Challenges and threats**

  - Getting busted by their boss or colleagues while taking some time
    off their work.
  - Crossing-borders to give digital security trainings.
  - Staying up-to-date with privacy tools and knowing how to explain
    them to others.

- **Communications**

  - Free software contribution: encrypted and unencrypted emails and chat
  - Organizing digital security trainings: smart phone messaging apps

- **Goals**

  A.  I want to hide information about myself
    - I want to keep content & information secret from my government
    - I want to keep information secret from my family and close people
    - I want to hide my identity
    - I don't want to raise suspicion

  B.  I want to communicate and collaborate securely
    - I want to communicate securely with known peers
    - I want to communicate with others who are under surveillance

  D.  I want to leave no trace on the computer
    - I need to use a computer that is not mine

  E.  I want information to be free
    - I want to access censored information online

  F. I don't want my data to be gathered by corporations and governments
    - I want to understand people using Tails
    - I just want more privacy

<!--

- **Use cases**

- **Definition of security**

- **Key Technologies used regularly**

  a. Features used in Tails
  b. Features used outside of Tails

- **Threat perception**

- **Security precautions**

-->

### Notes from the [[August 2018 monthly meeting|contribute/meetings/201808]]

- Doing stuff for (untrusted) others
  - *emmapeel: i think derya would like to be able to format suspicious
    USB stick people gives them*
  - *sajolida: right, Derya is sometimes "doing stuff for people" during
    training and such*

- Refugee status
  - *segfault: "Turkish refugee in Germany" is unrealistic - Germany
    doesn't allow Turkish refugees*
  - *segfault: Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan are countries from which
    refugees are allowed to stay in Germany*
  - *sajolida: i know people living in Germany who were born and raised
    in Turkey and are living now in Germany to be safe (LGBT) but i
    don't know if they have an official "refugee" status*
  - *sajolida: i think we said Derya was Turkish because of the recent
    crackdown on digital security trainers in Turkey and the big Turkish
    community in Germany*
  - *emmapeel: exile?*

- Outreach material
  - *emmapeel: maybe Derya wants to print and make posters, flyers, etc*
  - *sajolida: yeap, i should add more details about his advocacy and
    training work, but it definitely includes sharing printed material*
  - *emmapeel: as an adult because of homphobia? cause it is difficult
    to be gay there?*
  - *segfault: just say that she is Turkish and lives in Germany*

- Training and advocacy
  - *sajolida: i'm realizing now that the training and advocacy of Derya
    looks like the training and advocacy that we added to Riou in July.*
