Tor
browser probably never will include an ad blocker, like we do. See:
[2.3.5: No filters](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/#philosophy)

As long as we keep an ad blocker that prevents downloading the ads our
browser fingerprint will be quite different from the Tor browser's.

> Sure, the browser fingerprinting issue is a real one; I wonder if
> this is going to be more and more true anyway, with torbrowser
> diverging more and more from iceweasel + torbutton.

We could of course remedy this by using an ad blocker which downloads
the ads but just hides the elements, but this sort of defeats what
I suppose is the main reason for us to have an ad blocker: to reduce
the lag introduced by downloading ads that usually are larger than the
target sites themselves.

> Making it harder for advertising networks to track Tails users is
> another reason I see to keep AdBlock. The torbrowser design document
> reads "these addons do not add any real privacy to a proper
> implementation of the above privacy requirements, as all third
> parties are prevented from tracking users between sites by the
> implementation"; we should read the Implementation section in
> details, see if this is true for iceweasel + torbutton, or merely
> for torbrowser. Thus tagging research too.

(Long, hard to follow discussion moved to the [[discussion
page|remove adblock?/discussion]].)

> So, what are you going to do about Adblock?
> Are you talking with Tor developers about this?

>> **Current status**: stalled. We are going to discuss Tails
>> relationship with the Torbrowser, especially on the browser
>> fingerprinting, anonymity set and ad blocking topics, during the
>> northern hemisphere's summer 2012.

>>> **Current status**: waiting for the notes of the aforementioned
>>> discussion to be converted into ticket updates [anonym].
>>> Thus removing the obsolete tags.
