# Social contract

Issue number: [[!tails_ticket 11669]]

## Introduction

The Tails Social Contract is a set of commitments that we as contributors to the Tails project stand by. This work is derived from the Debian Social Contract and Tor Project's Social Contract. If you have any questions or comments, feel free to email: <tails-project@boum.org>.

This is a promise from our developer community to the rest of the world, affirming a commitment to our beliefs.

## 1. By developing Tails and publishing related documentation we try to provide usable tools for anonymity and privacy.

We believe that privacy, the free exchange of ideas, and equal access to information are essential to free and open societies. Through our community standards and the code we write and deploy, we provide tools that empower all people to protect and advance these rights.


## 2. Tails and the related documentation is and will remain free software

Equal access to information includes the free availability of our code and documentation as well as the transparency of our decision making processes. Tails will always be free to use, remix, adapt and distribute.

When we write new components of the Tails system, we will license them in a manner consistent with the [Debian Free Software Guidelines](https://www.debian.org/social_contract).

##3. We will give back to the Free Software community 

Tails is a privacy-oriented [Debian Derivative](https://wiki.debian.org/Derivatives).

We want usable security and privacy-oriented tools to become a standard for the Free Software community as a whole.

Bugfixes, code improvements, Debian packaging, as well as work on usability issues which we include in Tails will be upstreamed whenever possible. This way, our modifications will benefit others and can be improved upon further by a wider audience of people.

## 4. We will never harm our users intentionally

We will always do our best to write secure code and make the right decisions. We will never willingly include backdoors or malicious software nor will we cooperate with any entity wanting us to harm our users.

As Tails is created in a transparent manner, anyone is encouraged to participate, review it and point out problems. Mistakes sometimes happen. We will be honest about them and fix them when they are reported to us.

## 5. We will not hide problems

Our entire bug report database is and will stay open for public view at all times. Reports that are filed here will promptly become visible to others.

Whenever severe security issues are reported to us in private, we will test them and ensure we promptly fix these issues. We will notify our users whenever such an issue has been reported to us. However, for the security of our users, we might not disclose such a severe issue immediately, before releasing a fix.

## 6. We are honest about the capabilities and limits of Tails and related technologies

We encourage users to inform themselves and decide if Tails is suitable for their use case, fits their security needs and whether it can and should be trusted. We work diligently to keep our community up-to-date through our various communication channels about the current state of our software and its limitations. We encourage users to read our documentation as well as third-party documentation in order to make an informed decision and engage in a learning process about the tools we ship.

We provide and explain methods of verification so that anyone can ensure that they downloaded a genuine copy of Tails.
