[[!meta title="Revamp the Greeter UI"]]

**Ticket**: [[!tails_ticket 5464 desc="#5464"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Rationale
=========

tails-greeter works fine, and its code in not that bad anymore, so on
this side it's now feasible to add features (e.g. [[!tails_ticket
5421]], [[!tails_ticket 5479]]).

However, the greeter UI is difficult to use, and adding more options
in the current state of things would only make things worse
usability-wise.

So, we have to improve the greeter UI to make it more ergonomic and
easier to use.

Design
======

Clarify specification
---------------------

It would help a lot to clarify some areas of the greeter
specification. This may involve revisiting a few past decisions:

* Do we still want the first screen to look like a Windows (NT4)
  login screen?
* Do we still want a second screen for options? Or another way to
  show it?
* Do we want the look to depend on whether the Windows theme was
  opted-in?
* How much do we want to optimize for first-time users?

Usability study
---------------

* Draft several User eXperience (and layout) options
* Make them testable
* Make an usability study:
  - catch testers (Tails users and/or newbies)
  - make them test, see what they do and ask them what they think

We may want to ask input from UX experts, and/or pay one to run the
usability study.

### References

<http://design.canonical.com/2013/08/usability-testing-how-do-we-design-effective-tasks/>

Prototypes
==========

Some proposals to test!

## Goals

My goals for the interface was:

- read in "natural" order: top to bottom
- no hidden windows/options
- easy to adapt to right-to-left languages RTL
- inspired/similar to GNOME3 "system preferences"

## Screenshots

Please test the script below, which lets you try the user experience!

The greeter started from DVD:

[[!img greeter.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter started from USB with persistence:

[[!img greeter+persistence.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter started from USB with persistence once language selected:

[[!img greeter+persistence+kbd.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the administration password option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-adm.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the keyboard option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-locale.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

The greeter once the windows camouflage option clicked:

[[!img greeter-opt-persistence.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

## How to test

Download everything in [[tails-greeter: revamp UI/mockups]], or better clone the git, go to the
directory and:

    $ ./mockup.py [-v <variant>] [-p]

Dependencies: gtk3, python gobject introspection (basically debian wheezy)

## Questions

I'd like to hear about:

- your overall impression?
- should keyboard selectable independently from locale in one click?
- your navigation experience?
- where should the locales box be?

(Note that some answers were sent on tails-dev already.)

## Remarks (add yours!)

- add a symbol if option was visited/activated
- activation of presets in persistence: when?

Resources
=========

Related tickets
---------------

* Moving stuff *out of* the greeter: [[!tails_ticket 5501]]

Past discussions
----------------

* <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2012-March/000936.html>
* thread starting at
  <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2012-March/000972.html>

Past work
---------

* `feature/single_toggle_button` branch in tails-greeter repo

UI / UX documentation
---------------------

* [GNOME's studies](http://live.gnome.org) on the subject

Feedback
========

This is feedback about the *current* greeter.

Report #1
---------

User interface is confusing.

The combination of "green/red icons + the check mark + pushed button" is
really hard to grasp.

How about a big push button labeled "Persistence", maybe with an icon?

The current behaviour for "More options?" is also problematic... How about
having a "More options" button at the bottom, near the "Login" button?
Ideally, this would require a "Back" button on the "Administration
password" scren, but even without it, I think the result will be easier
to understand/use.

> How about using checkmark boxes or Yes/No radial dials, or not use
> them at all? Entering a password into a box means it's enabled, and
> leaving it empty implies you don't wish to use the feature. The text
> in my example here is a bit big though:

[[!img menu.png align="right" size="" alt=""]]

Report #2
---------

A few impressions after the publication of the screenshots. Great job
by the way!

The buttons ON/OFF are sometime confusing, as it's hard to know if it
reflects the actual configuration, or the ability to modify this
configuration, i.e. if the option is *actually* activated or if
clicking on this button will toggle this option ON. I hope I'm clear
enough :)

Please also keep in mind that some use small screens, and can get
blocked if the cannot see the validation button.

Last point, as I will have to use Tails-greeter *at each boot*,
I would like to be able to handle it easily with the keyboard, to save
a lot of time.

That said, thanks a lot for the great job!

Report #3
---------

Indeed, this is a great polishing of the user interface, at least in
terms of appearance. I failed to download anything from the mockups
page though so be aware that this opinion is based on the screenshots
only

I do have some corrections and suggestions though, from the screenshot
it is apparent that it allows to choose "Portugues" (with a eacute) as
a region/locale, which is not! It is a river and neighborhood in Porto
Rico. "Portugues" (with a ecirc) is the correct word for Portuguese in Portuguese.

Now as for if "Should keyboard selectable independently from locale in
one click?", I would say yes as I use it in the current greeter. I do
this for two reason: First in case my tails session gets owned the
attacker will perhaps not know from which country I am though I am
aware in that situation I probably have far worse problems as far as
de-anonimization goes. And second, I am fluent in English, and
I prefer to see the menus and the documentation in English (as are
more complete). Having to scroll down to get the Portugal keyboard in
the current greeter is quite annoying though and I often wonder why
are the other languages more obscure keyboards (like without dead keys
and etc) before the more default options. Perhaps ordering
alphabetically by languages and after all the defaults keyboards then
again the lesser keyboards in this new greeter? (btw why is Portuguese
absent from the locales screenshots?)

A last, but most important imho suggestion: no matter how ergonomic
you can make the greeter it will always have some usability problems,
but there is a way to minimize this! There is already a todo ticket
for choosing language at installation time ( see:
[[!tails_ticket 5501]])
but then if someone got hold of your tails she/he could see from where
you are and what language you speak. Now, if a new feature in the
greeter was implemented - "Greeter Password" (pass-phrase would be
overkill in this case as usability is preferred) - language, locale,
but also camouflage, read only options for persistence, keyboards and
other options to come in the greeter, could be defined at installation
time and accessed at boot time with a few keystrokes from universal
keys in keyboards. Or perhaps you have two greeter configurations and
could setup two passwords.. If you think this feature could be useful
perhaps you could revamp the greeter with this in mind for a future
version? ;)

Okay that's its :) the overall opinion of the greeter from the
screenshots is that you made an amazing job :-) congratulations and
thanks :-)

Report #4
---------

- The clean, fresh design is nice!

- Is "English" preselected? Hopefully the "English" language option is
  preselected so the most common use case doesn't require an additional click.

  Maybe a little checkmark to the left of the current language could indicate
  this. This would let the user know they can skip past this step without
  clicking anything more if we have already selected the most common option.

- The on/off rocker switch example is confusing. As others have mentioned,
  'off' or 'on' could be interpreted as either the current state or is the action
  to be taken when clicked. A possible alternative would be to use radio buttons
  and add one more option "Default theme" that is the prechecked radio option. I
  would rename the entire panel so just "Camoflage" or "Theme" instead of
  specifically "Windows Camoflage". Doing both of these (using radios and
  renaming the panel) would also allow for adding another theme like OS X by just
  adding a new radio option.

- I might rename "Bridges" to "Tor Bridges" for clarity even on a user's first
  use.

Otherwise looks great.

Possible roadmaps
=================

0. **done** Decide what DM and language / UI toolkit we will use for the
   greeter in Wheezy
0. **done** Adapt following plans accordingly
0. Gather more input from people who have strong opinions about the
   t-g UX: the idea is to encourage work on the greeter by bringing
   early positive input rather than late negative feedback.
   This should happen in [the dedicated
   thread](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2012-October/001781.html).
0. Clarify specifications (see the *Design* section above)
   0. research a bit the pending questions
   0. raise these topics for discussion among Tails developers
0. Implement plan A or plan B
0. Update documentation
0. Send software and documentation for translation on tails-l10n

Plan A - incremental UI changes
-------------------------------

The idea is to draft a new possible version first, and then we can
decide whether we want to ship it right away, or create other options
and benchmark them through a full-blown usability study.
Alan committed to lots of things in this plan, but not to
any deadline.

0. Ask for ideas
0. Propose one or several prototypes
0. **Next thing to do**: make some testing happen by various kinds of
   users
0. Extract something useful from the result
0. Implement the chosen proposal in a dedicated branch of the greeter
   repo

Plan B - full UI rewrite with usability study
---------------------------------------------

0. Design and sketch prototypes
0. Organize a usability study
0. Implement the winner idea
