For Tails 2.0 we want at least basic UEFI boot including Mac.

* Ticket: [[!tails_ticket 5739]]
* Branch: [[!tails_gitweb_branch feature/uefi]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="goals-and-non-goals"></a>

Goals and non-goals
===================

Goals
-----

* devices produced by Tails Installer should boot on most UEFI-only
  hardware (e.g. some relevant set of Macs)
* devices produced by Tails Installer should boot on most hardware
  that only supports UEFI boot for GPT devices (e.g. ThinkPad X220)
* Legacy BIOS boot support should be left unaffected (modulo a tiny
  amount of really crazy firmware bugs, probably)

<a id="non-goals"></a>

Non-goals
---------

* UEFI DVD boot: BIOS boot from DVD works fine on most hardware,
  including Macs; adding the files needed to have UEFI DVD boot work
  on some systems will break what currently works for others.
* UEFI boot from hybrid ISO cat'd on a USB device: given BIOS DVD boot
  works generally fine, it's OK to require users to go this way and
  install their UEFI-capable Tails USB stick from DVD. In case one has
  no DVD writer, another potentially workable option is to bootstrap
  in Legacy BIOS boot mode from hybrid ISO cat'd on a USB device.
  If the firmware supports it, this can be done on the same computer;
  else, from another computer.
* 32-bit UEFI boot: this hardware is rare and mostly obsolete these
  days
* [[blueprint/UEFI Secure boot]] is not part of this plan.
  Picking technical solutions that leave room for it would be a great
  bonus, though.
* [[blueprint/UEFI boot on Mac without rEFInd]] would be too ambitious
  a goal for this iteration. Besides, we think that installing rEFInd
  is not that crazy a requirement, considering the additional features
  a device installed with Tails Installed provides (namely:
  persistence and incremental upgrades).

<a id="testing-results"></a>

Testing results
===============

* [[blueprint/UEFI/syslinux]]
* [[blueprint/UEFI/GRUB]]

<a id="discussion-and-conclusions"></a>

Discussion and conclusions
==========================

We have conducted an initial research and testing effort, aiming at
choosing tools and procedures to add UEFI boot support to Tails.
Our goals and non-goals are [[stated
above|blueprint/UEFI#goals-and-non-goals]].

The outcome of this project exceeded our expectations: we now have not
only all important design decisions made, but also a prototype
implementation that can already be
[downloaded](http://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_feature-uefi/)
and tested. It is built from our [[!tails_gitweb_branch feature/uefi]]
Git branch.

In this document, we first summarize our findings regarding the choice
of a boot loader, and state the conclusions we have reached. Then, we
discuss the implementation details that matter most. Finally, we sum
up the next steps toward deploying Tails with UEFI support to the
masses, and provide an overview of improvements that we may need to
make in the future.

Choosing a boot loader
----------------------

A large number of UEFI boot loader implementations are available.
We have limited our selection to the options that meet the following
conditions:

1. available in Debian (excludes Gummiboot and rEFInd);
1. actively maintained upstream (excludes BURG, ELILO and rEFIt);
1. easy to integrate into the Debian Live ISO build process;
1. no requirement to add boot entries to NVRAM;
1. no requirement to recompile or modify the Linux kernels we install
   from Debian (excludes the Linux kernel EFISTUB).

So, we have considered two boot loaders, namely GRUB (not to be
confused with GRUB Legacy) and syslinux (version 6). There is a lot to
say about these two pieces of software, and we will focus on the
criteria that seem relevant for a Debian Live system, and for Tails
in particular.

### GRUB

Pros:

* GRUB has *many* features and is highly flexible (e.g.
  scripting language, many existing modules).
* GRUB's support for UEFI has been tested in the field for a few years
  now, by many GNU/Linux distributions that added UEFI support back
  when syslinux did not support it ⇒ it supports probably more edge
  cases (aka. buggy firmware), especially for graphics support.
* GRUB supports [[blueprint/UEFI Secure boot]], and is used (in
  various ways) by most GNU/Linux distributions that provide
  this feature.

Cons:

* GRUB is complex software. Its many features and configuration
  options can be slightly overwhelming, and may hinder our potential
  to attract and welcome new contributors.
* We would have to create a GRUB version of our menu and graphical
  theme configuration, and either migrate to GRUB for Legacy BIOS too
  (which adds quite some risks of regressions that must be evaluated
  and mitigated), or to maintain this configuration *in addition to*
  the existing syslinux one that would still be be used in Legacy
  BIOS mode.
* GRUB is not so popular in the Live systems world ⇒ might have issues
  in this area that major non-Live GNU/Linux distributions did
  not catch.
* We lack an evaluation of how hard it would be to backport recent
  enough versions of GRUB for Squeeze and Wheezy.

### syslinux

Pros:

* Tails has been using syslinux forever, and we are pretty happy
  with it.
* syslinux is very popular in Live GNU/Linux distributions ⇒ picking
  it gives good potential for inter-distro cooperation. Notably,
  Debian Live systems use syslinux by default.
* Debian Live's UEFI support will be based on syslinux 6.
* We were able to trivially backport syslinux 6 for Squeeze.

Cons:

* syslinux' support for UEFI is quite young; this is slightly
  mitigated by the fact that at least one high-profile Live system
  (Knoppix) already uses it, and presumably adding another one into
  the mix (Tails) might foster upstream development a bit, and result
  in rapid fixing of the most important remaining glitches.
* syslinux has limited support for UEFI boot from DVD; this is
  a non-goal for us in this iteration, but still.
* Using syslinux with Secure boot is [maybe broken, but maybe
  not](http://bugzilla.syslinux.org/show_bug.cgi?id=8). That is, it
  could use some love and testing, to say the least.
* syslinux is available in Debian experimental only, and it is hard to
  know when this might change.

### Multiple boot loaders

Technically, it is entirely possible to install multiple UEFI boot
loaders onto the Tails system partition (which is, conveniently, the
EFI System Partition). This would allow users whose hardware is not
supported by the default one, to boot using the other.

However:

* some hardware is only able to boot the fallback UEFI boot loader, so
  we have to pick a default one anyway; then, users whose hardware
  only boots the fallback UEFI boot loader *and* is not well supported
  by this one would not be able to boot Tails anyway, without fiddling
  (in unsupported ways) with boot loader configuration;
* the resulting user interface in the firmware boot menu would display
  more entries; hence, the needed documentation would be more complex
  to write, maintain, and, more importantly, to read and follow.

### Conclusions

First, we believe the user experience that would result from
installing multiple boot loaders would be much less smooth overall, so
we are rejecting this option for now. Still, if broader testing and
user feedback showed that none of the other available options is good
enough by itself, we might have to reconsider.

Second, in our [[early testing|blueprint/UEFI#testing-results]], GRUB
and syslinux appeared to be perfectly on par with each other, as far
as hardware support is concerned. To be fair, it must be noted that
GRUB was tested in the simpler, and likely more robust text-only mode,
while we have taken benefit of our existing configuration and
graphical theme to test syslinux a bit more extensively. So, with the
data we have at hand, quality of hardware support cannot be used as
a criterion in this decision.

We must say that GRUB's flexibility and mature UEFI support is
seriously appealing to us. Also, even if Secure boot is not part of
this first iteration, it is very tempting to bet on a boot loader that
is already in wide use in this area. Still, we feel that continuing to
use syslinux both for Legacy BIOS and UEFI boot will make Tails blend
better with the surrounding Live operating system environment,
particularly Debian Live, which has many advantages both for Tails
users and developers. Added to that, the lesser risk of regressions
for existing Tails users, and the lesser impact on our project's
resources, were decisive.

Our final take on this is to use syslinux 6 as our boot loader of
choice, for the initial UEFI boot support in Tails.

To end with, it has to be said that switching boot loaders in the
future appears to be pretty easy from a technical standpoint.
Of course, the quality assurance effort that would go with it in order
to assert the risk for regressions, shall not be overlooked: it is
generally bad for user experience to break support for hardware that
was previously known-working, even if the very change that causes this
breakage allows to support many more systems in total. Regardless, we
do not consider the current decision as set in stone. We think it
would be perfectly workable to switch to GRUB or another boot loader
later on, if it proves to be needed for future developments of Tails,
or to adjust our position to match changes in the
ecosystem thereabout.

Implementation
--------------

Even if it is slightly out-of-scope, as far as the project that called
for this document is concerned, we discuss here a few important
implementation details we have had the opportunity to think of,
experiment with, and reach conclusions about, while we were conducting
this research and testing project.

### Boot device partitioning

UEFI theoretically supports the standard PC disk partition scheme
(MBR), but in practice it is most often used to boot off devices with
a GUID Partition Table (GPT). Add to this that GPT supports labelling
partitions (as opposed to *filesystem* labels, that are useless for
detecting an encrypted Debian Live persistent volume). This is why we
have decided, back when we were implementing persistence support and
a graphical USB installer in 2012, to initialize Tails boot devices
with a GPT. Since then, we have made great use of this feature in
Tails Persistent Volume Assistant, Incremental Upgrader and Greeter.

Despite a few painful consequences we discovered along the way, all
caused by buggy firmware implementations, we think that picking GPT at
that point was the right choice to make. We now have the opportunity
to take advantage of it even more, and to surpass the aforementioned
firmware limitations, by adding UEFI support to Tails.

### Boot loader installation path

During our early testing, we have discovered that some hardware does
not support running a UEFI boot loader, without entries added to the
NVRAM, unless it is installed in the path meant for the device's
fallback UEFI boot loader (`EFI/BOOT/bootx64.efi`). At this point, let
us make three observations:

1. It is clearly not an option for most Tails users to fiddle with
   `efibootmgr` each time they encounter such a system. This is not
   only impractical and tedious, but requires technical expertise that
   exceeds what our [[design goals|contribute/design]] expect from
   our users.
1. Developers and researchers in the GNU/Linux distributions field
   have discovered many issues with how NVRAM and boot entries are
   managed by UEFI firmware, often resulting in non-bootable systems,
   and sometimes in fully bricked hardware, unless special tricks are
   used. We do not feel comfortable assuming that every such problem
   has been detected and workaround'ed to this date, and our current
   team lacks the expertise to tackle this problem with
   great confidence.
1. Tails is designed to avoid leaving traces on the hardware being
   used to run it. Without further consideration, our position is to
   assume that adding boot entries in the computer's NVRAM directly
   conflicts with this design goal.

Therefore, we will *not* add boot entries for Tails in the NVRAM, and
our only practically available choice is to install our boot loader of
choice as the fallback UEFI boot loader on Tails devices.

### Available Linux kernels

We are aiming to support UEFI boot in Tails for 64-bit hardware only.
Then, the included UEFI boot loader has to be a 64-bit one.
Running a 32-bit kernel from a 64-bit UEFI boot loader does not work.
Therefore, we have to ship a 64-bit kernel, in addition to (at least)
one 32-bit kernel, the latter being needed to provide continued
support for 32-bit hardware.

The set of Linux kernels shipped in Tails has to [[!tails_ticket 5456
desc="be modified"]] to add a 64-bit kernel, in replacement of the
686-pae flavour. This causes only a few minor problems that, in our
opinion, are worth neither blocking the addition of UEFI support, nor
keeping the 686-pae kernel and bloating the ISO with a third kernel.

### Boot loader configuration

The syslinux configuration that is already used for Legacy BIOS boot
is copied as-is into the UEFI boot loader configuration directory.

### Build-time implementation

Two build-time hooks take care of the UEFI boot loader setup:

* `config/chroot_local-hooks/60-copy-syslinux-modules`
* `config/binary_local-hooks/99-syslinux_uefi`

### Tails Installer

Tails Installer creates the Tails system partition as an EFI System
Partition (ESP), with the corresponding GUID. Additionally, it was
adapted to support paths used by the syslinux 6 Debian packages, and
in the `EFI/BOOT` directory.

### syslinux backport

A backport of syslinux 6.x for Squeeze is installed from our APT
repository. We intend to [[!tails_ticket 6563 desc="prepare"]] and use
an official backport for Wheezy instead, uploaded to the official
Debian backports repositories, once syslinux 6.x is available in
Debian testing.

Next steps
----------

The next steps toward delivering UEFI boot support to Tails users are
maintained as sub-tasks of [[!tails_ticket 5739]].

Ideas for future work
---------------------

Most of the possible candidate goals that were
[[rejected|UEFI#non-goals]] for this initial iteration are not
critical. Pursuing these would require substantial effort, that is
better put into other Tails improvements. Therefore, they have not
made their way into our [[!tails_roadmap]]. Some have low-priority
tickets on [[!tails_redmine desc="Redmine"]], meaning that patches are
welcome, but we do not feel committed, as a project, to make
it happen.

On the other hand, it appears that adding support for [[blueprint/UEFI
Secure boot]] will be necessary at some point. More and more
off-the-shelf PC hardware is shipped with this functionality enabled.
Also, having to constantly disable and re-enable Secure boot in the
firmware configuration is not the best dual-boot user experience we
can provide (in case the other, non-Tails operating system only starts
with Secure boot enabled).

To end with, another task that we would be very happy to tackle would
be to upstream our work and make it available to all Debian Live users
and downstreams. However, as explained on [[!tails_ticket 5691]] and
<https://lists.debian.org/debian-live/2013/11/msg00017.html>:

1. we are still using an old version of live-build;
1. the upgrade process requires a lot of work;
1. we have very little incentive to upgrade;
1. even if we upgraded to the current production-ready version of
   live-build (namely: 3.x), and implemented our changes in
   `scripts/build/binary_syslinux`, then we could not easily
   forward-port them from live-build 3.x to 4.x, nor backport them
   from live-build 4.x to 3.x;
1. our past experience has shown that using in production the latest
   versions of live-*, that have not stabilized yet, simply requires
   way too much ongoing bugfixing and adapting effort for our taste
   and limited resources; so that's not an option
   either, unfortunately.

Sadly, it seems that in the current situation, the only realistic
option available to us right now is to go on using custom hooks and
configuration. The best we can do to be team players is to share our
experience and conclusions, as well as our custom scripts and
configuration. This is what we did in this document, and we hope it is
useful for many.

Resources
=========

* lernstick Grub configuration, implemented as a live-build binary
  hook, that's meant to be nice with an existing syslinux
  configuration managed by live-build:
  <https://github.com/imedias/lernstickAdvanced.git> (oh, and they use
  the [xmlboot](https://github.com/imedias/xmlboot) gfxboot script and
  many crazy Grub configuration scripts)
* [hellais' TAILS-OSX scripts](https://github.com/hellais/TAILS-OSX)
  and the [list of
  hardware](https://github.com/hellais/TAILS-OSX/blob/master/tested-on.md)
  it was tested on
* [Mac Linux USB Loader](http://sevenbits.github.io/Mac-Linux-USB-Loader/)
  Doesn't work with Tails at the moment, but that's a frequent request
  to upstream. Upstream is working on fixing this. That would allow
  starting Tails on Mac UEFI.
* Steve McIntyre's EFI installation progress:
  - [[!debpkg debian-cd]] 3.1.11 has x86 EFI support, see the
    `debian/changelog` for details
  - [fourth](http://blog.einval.com/2012/09/03#Debian_EFI_4) (2012-09-03)
  - [third](http://blog.einval.com/2012/08/24#Debian_EFI_3)
  - [second](http://blog.einval.com/2012/08/22#Debian_EFI_2) (2012-08-22)
  - [first](http://blog.einval.com/2012/08/12#Debian_EFI) (2012-08-12)
* <https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2012/01/msg00168.html>
* [Debian: switch to UEFI boot](http://tanguy.ortolo.eu/blog/article51/debian-efi)
* [[!debbug 658352]] about adding UEFI support to Debian CDs
* Liberte Linux supports UEFI (with GRUB, and syslinux for BIOS boot)
* the [SprezzOS](http://www.sprezzatech.com/sprezzos.html)
  Debian derivative is [working on this](https://github.com/dankamongmen/SprezzOS/wiki/Installer) too:
  - [bug 11](https://www.sprezzatech.com/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=11)
  - [bug 104](https://www.sprezzatech.com/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=104)
* rEFIt developer, Rod Smith, may be willing to help:
  [[forum/Boot_fails_from_usb_thumb_drive_on_Macbook_Pro]]
* ArchLinux' page about
  [UEFI Bootloaders](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/UEFI_Bootloaders)
* syslinux 6 (released in June 2013) has UEFI support. Debian Live's
  UEFI support will be based on it.
  - Early users [discussion and
    hints](http://www.marshut.com/kyxhm/question-about-syslinux-efi-alpha-version.html).
  - It seems that syslinux does not do very well with CD booting and
    UEFI: a FAT32 ElTorito image (with kernel, initrd and boot loader
    configuration) must be embedded into the ISO9660. syslinux can't
    read any other file system than the one it was booted from, so we
    have to duplicate these files. Also, this image must be smaller
    than 32MB. Indeed,
    [Knoppix](http://www.knopper.net/knoppix/index-en.html) 7.2 uses
    syslinux 6, and supports "UEFI-Boot (DVD: 32 and 64bit, CD: only
    32bit) *after installation on USB flash disk*".
* Kanotix, based on Debian Live and GRUB2, has a isohybrid setup that
  allows "multi-hybrid booting" as CD-ROM (EFI or El Torito) or as
  a hard-drive (e.g. a USB pendrive) on Intel-Macs (EFI) and PCs (EFI
  or MBR). [See
  details](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2013-February/002587.html).
* Debian's Linux 3.2 kernel has "UEFI stub" support, which
  allows it to be started directly since the EFI boot menu.
* Running a UEFI firmware for virtual machines (after installing the
  `ovmf` package): `qemu-system-x86_64 -bios /usr/share/ovmf/OVMF.fd`
* Ubuntu's Firmware Test Suite
  - [homepage](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirmwareTestSuite)
  - [live version](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareEnablementTeam/Documentation/FirmwareTestSuiteLive)
  - [reference guide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/fwts)
* Peter Jones' [The EFI System Partition and the Default Boot
  Behavior](http://blog.uncooperative.org/blog/2014/02/06/the-efi-system-partition/):
  detailed description of how the firmware picks an ESP, and how
  Fedora deals with it.

More technical details:

 * <http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~libburnia-team/libisofs/scdbackup/view/head:/doc/boot_sectors.txt#L398>

OVMF
----

* The <edk2-devel@lists.sourceforge.net> mailing-list is the canonical
  place for discussions on this topic.
* Ubuntu's page about OVMF: <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEFI/OVMF>
* <http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/OVMF>
* Fedora's [Testing secureboot with KVM](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Testing_secureboot_with_KVM)

### Getting OVMF

The [[!debpts ed2k]] source package (from which [[!debpkg ovmf]] is
built) is a bit outdated in Debian, but it will hopefully be enough
for our needs.

Else:

* Fresher OVMF than TianoCore's can be found at:
  - <http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/OVMF>
  - <http://people.canonical.com/~jamie/ovmf>
* One can also get a fresh UDK or use EDK-II svn trunk, to build their
  own OVMF:
  - <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEFI/EDK2>

### Usage in VM

* [[!debbug 714496]] documents how to use OVMF with libvirt.
* The [OVMF page](http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/OVMF) on the Linux KVM
  website documents this too.
* Instructions that document `-pflash` & `-bios` options for running
  OVMF on QEMU can be found in the *OvmfPkg/README: Update information
  about running OVMF*
  [thread](http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.comp.bios.tianocore.devel/5716).
