# Introduction

Our [[documentation|doc/first_steps/startup_options/windows_camouflage]] reads "if
you are using a computer in public you may want to avoid attracting unwanted
attention by changing the way Tails looks into something that resembles
Microsoft Windows 8." This is what we call the "Windows camouflage".

[[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/windows_camouflage/windows_camouflage.jpg size=320x240 link=no]]

The Windows camouflage will be [[!tails_ticket 8064 desc="broken in Debian Jessie based Tails"]]. This blueprint
describes what should be done to update the Windows camouflage to Jessie.

# Goals and non-Goals

The goal of the Windows camouflage is to "avoid attracting unwanted attention" when
"using a computer in public". To achieve this goal, the display of a Tails
system with the Windows camouflage should look similar to the display of a computer
running a common operating system such as Microsoft Windows for a person seeing
the computer from a few meters distance.

The goal of Windows camouflage is **not** to look exactly like Microsoft
Windows. For example, it is acceptable for the icons not to be exactly the same.

The goal of Windows camouflage update is **not** to cover more versions of
windows nor to implement an OS X camouflage. Even if those would be nice bonuses.

# Requirements

Windows camouflage update MUST include:

- a Gtk 3 theme that looks like Windows 8.1 desktop interface compatible with
  the version of Gtk 3 shipped in Debian Jessie (3.14.5)
- a Gtk 2 theme that looks like Windows 8.1 desktop interface compatible with
  the version of Gtk 2 shipped in Debian Jessie (2.24.25)
- a Mutter/Metacity theme that looks like Windows 8.1 desktop compatible with
  the version of Mutter shipped in Debian Jessie (3.14.2)
- an icon theme that looks like Windows 8.1 desktop icons compatible with the version
  of GNOME shipped in Debian Jessie (3.14.2) and including all icons that might
  be displayed on the Tails desktop at startup.
- a GNOME Shell theme/extension that looks like Windows 8.1 desktop panel compatible with
  the version on GNOME Shell shipped in Debian Jessie (3.14.2)
- a way to enable all the required components to provide the camouflage mode
  that can be triggered by [[Tails Greeter|/doc/first_steps/startup_options#greeter]]

Windows camouflage MAY include:

- a GNOME Shell theme/extension that makes GNOME Shell activity view looks like
  the Windows 8.1 start screen, compatible with the version on GNOME Shell shipped
  in Debian Jessie (3.14.2)

# Implementation

## Pieces needing update

- [[!tails_gitweb_repo gnome-theme-windows8]] which
  should mostly need an update. It contains:
  - an icon theme based on [[Gnomeight GNOME Icon Theme by Ambiance
    69|http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/?content=163560]]
  - a Gtk 2 and 3 theme based on [[Windows 8 modern UI (metro) Gtk3 (+Gtk2) by Maxime
    D.|http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/?content=158721]]
  - [[Windows 8 modern UI (metro) Metacity Theme by Maxime D.|http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/?content=157024]]
  - [[Windows 8 cursors by David Farkas|http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/?content=155025]]
- activation scripts, one [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-prepare-win8-theme desc="run as root"]] and one run [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-activate-win8-theme desc="in the GNOME session"]] which should mostly need an update. They are [[!greeter_gitweb PostLogin.default desc="triggered by the greeter"]]

## Pieces to drop

- [[!tails_gitweb_repo gnome-panel-applet-window-picker desc="GNOME Panel's Window Picker Applet"]] which should not be used anymore as Debian Jessie based Tails don't use GNOME Panel anymore.

## Missing pieces

The biggest and most exciting task is probably to implement the missing part of
the puzzle which is an GNOME Shell theme/extension that mimic the Windows 8.1
desktop. This is probably about writing a custom shell theme and/or extension, inspired by
GNOME's "classic" set of extensions.

Resources:

- the GNOME Shell's "Classic" set of extensions: [[windows
  list|https://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell-extensions/tree/extensions/window-list]];
[[apps-menu|https://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell-extensions/tree/extensions/apps-menu]]
and [[places-menu|https://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell-extensions/tree/extensions/places-menu]]
- a [[relevant cinnamon theme|http://cinnamon-spices.linuxmint.com/themes/view/188]]
