[[!toc levels=2]]

Design by design
================

Tails is designed to be an easy-to-use Live operating system as well as a toolkit for privacy and anonymity for the masses.

We organized several workshops at NUMA to improve the usability of Tails. We realized that it is hard for people who are not tech-savvy and/or new to Tails:

- to understand what Tails is;
- to install Tails;
- to boot Tails.

We want to improve this situation. 
First-time visitors on the Tails website should be able to enjoy a consistent experience, from understanding if Tails is the right tool for them, to achieving their actual goals by using it.


From the inside, to the outside
===============================

We want to go from the inside to the outside, from the skeleton to the surface. E.g. having a rocking website _first_ might lead potential users to think that Tails is easy enough for them, while it is not the case yet, which could be problematic in some cases.

This is why, hereafter you will find a description of the logical order of steps. Of course, we can still work simultaneously on all of these steps, *but* it is useful to keep the whole roadmap in mind along the way.


2015
====

In 2015, we focused on [[Bootstrapping and upgrading workflow (granted)|blueprint/bootstrapping/]] and going on the the [[Greeter UI revamp|https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/greeter_revamp_UI/]].


Next
====

1. Inside
---------

* Change the language selection position in the Greeter [[!tails_ticket 9922]]
* Onion Circuits [[!tails_ticket 6842]]
* Graphical interface for additional packages persistence feature + improve the related boot delay [[!tails_ticket 9050]] & [[!tails_ticket 9059]]
* MAT [[!tails_ticket 7684]]
* Greeter revamp: phase 1  [[!tails_ticket 5464]]
* Tor and network progress bar [[!tails_ticket 7437]]
* Screen locker [[!tails_ticket 5684]]
* User-friendly backup system [[!tails_ticket 5301]]
* Localized clock [[!tails_ticket 6284]]
* Tails Installer on Mac OS X [[!tails_ticket 8559]]
* OpenPGP Applet [[!tails_ticket 7778 ]]
* Shut down [[!tails_ticket 5417 ]] 


2. Installation
---------------

A big work in done in 2015 to [[improve the installation workflow|blueprint/bootstrapping/]].

1. Refactor the installation documentation and add visual aids.
2. Automatic ISO verification [[!tails_ticket 7552]] 
3. Multiplatform installer [[!tails_ticket 7544]]

In 2016, we want to go on:

* Tails Installer on Windows [[!tails_ticket 8550]]
* OpenPGP verification in Tails installer when ran in Debian [[!tails_ticket 9798]]
* Improve Tails Installer GUI [[!tails_ticket 8859]]
* Full self-upgrade [[!tails_ticket 7499]]


3. Website
----------

### Content and structure

There are 2 two dimensions of work we have to do :

#### Content
Re-define the goals of the website and maybe split it in differents sections [[!tails_ticket 7627]]

For example :

* A - new commers (infographic, videos, homepage, tails identity) [[!tails_ticket 9814]]
* B - power users
* C - dev / contributors


#### Structure (html and css)
Modernize the html and css structure.

* D - "fanciness"
* E - responsiveness
* F - accessibility


### Website roadmap

Depending on grants and availibilities, here are the big steps we could do:

- late 2015 : review the CSS and HTML from the Installation Assistant [[!tails_ticket #9915]]
- early 2016 : maybe migrate the layout of the website following the work on the Installation Assistant css and html (E, F)
- mid 2016 : starts working on new commers issues (generic Tails presentation). Think and unify meaning and graphical identity (we could make a survey to gather information). (A)
- 2017 : work on other sections of the website (B,C)


4. Outreach
-----------

- 2018 : Promote Tails outside of the website, regarding the differents people and use cases where Tails could be usefull.






