[[!meta title="VeraCrypt support in GNOME"]]

[[!toc]]

User research
=============

Research questions
------------------

### Success

1. How many people use VeraCrypt in Tails after our work in
   comparison with before?
2. How many people who were using VeraCrypt outside of Tails but
   couldn't use it in Tails use it after our work?

### Scope

1. Which fraction of VeraCrypt volume are encrypted file containers?
   encrypted partitions?
2. Are people encrypting their full operating system with VeraCrypt?
3. Which fraction of users are using hidden volumes?
4. Which fraction of users are using keyfiles? Why? How?
5. Which fraction of users are using the old TrueCrypt format?
   - In VeraCrypt this requires checking the "TrueCrypt mode" check box.
6. Can we rely on file containers having a .tc or .hc extension?

### Behaviors

1. How do people share files with other people who don't use Tails?

### Technical knowledge

1. How technical are VeraCrypt users? Tails and VeraCrypt users?
   - For example: Are they used to GNOME Disks?

Where to ask our questions
--------------------------

- Inside Tails:
  - /home
  - /doc/encryption_and_privacy/truecrypt
  - Tails channel on Reddit

- Outside Tails:
  - XXX

Notes on using VeraCrypt
------------------------

- I couldn't manage to encrypt a whole device.
- I couldn't manage to create a new encrypted partition (only reformat
  an existing one).
- I couldn't manage to encrypt the *second* partition on a disk (only
  the first one).
- VeraCrypt has a "Mount" and "Auto-Mount Devices".
- VeraCrypt doesn't enforce or guide in creating the '.hc' extension.

Misc
----

- Check what security guides are recommending:
  - Talking to Security-in-a-Box we should focus on file containers and
    hidden volumes in file containers. Because people are using other
    tools for disk encryption and file containers also limit a bit the
    amount of access that other operating systems have to the files
    (avoids to have the partition full of viruses).
