## Overview
These release notes contain the following issues:

  - New features
  - Upgrades and changes
  - Required configuration changes
  - Known issues 

There are numerous other changes that may not be apparent in the daily operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the the changes are listed in the [project management area](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f[]=status_id&op[status_id]=%3D&v[status_id][]=11&f[]=&c[]=status&c[]=priority&c[]=fixed_version&c[]=subject&c[]=category&c[]=cf_15&c[]=assigned_to&c[]=cf_9&group_by=category.)

## New features

  - **Electrum Bitcoin** is an easy to use Bitcoin wallet provided as an optional installation. You can manually install Electrum Bitcoin with the [Installing Electrum Bitcoin procedure](https://tails.boum.org/ikiwiki.cgi?page=doc%2Fanonymous_internet%2Felectrum&from=blueprint%2Fversion_1.3&do=create.).

  - Tor Bridges now support the **obfs4** pluggable transport. Pluggable transports transform the Tor traffic  between the client and the bridge. The obfs4 pluggable transport provides an additional pluggable transport to help disguise Tor traffic from censors.

  - The **Keyringer program** is an optional installation. Keyringer lets you manage and share secrets. You can manually install Keyringer with the [Installing Keyringer procedure](https://tails.boum.org/ikiwiki.cgi?page=doc%2Fencryption_and_privacy%2Fkeyringer&from=blueprint%2Fversion_1.3&do=create). 

## Upgrades and changes

  - The **Tor Browser** has additional operating system and data **security**. This security restricts reads and writes to a limited number of folders.  [Learn more](https://tails.boum.org/doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/index.en.html#confinement) about how to manipulate files with the Tor Browser. 
  - The **Ibus Vietnamese input method** is now supported. 
  - The **maximum key-size for OpenPGP smartcards** is increased from 3072- to 4096-bits for better smartcard security.
  - The **Mac and Linux installation** processes no longer require the isohybrid command. Removing the isohybrid command simplifies the installation. 
  - The **tap-to-click** and **two-finger scrolling** trackpad settings are now enabled by default. This should be more intuitive for Mac users.


## Required configuration changes
You must manually configure Pidgin to use the Tor browser. 

  - Configure Pidgin with the following procedure:

    * Start Tails
    * Enable persistence without the read-only option
    * Start Pidgin
    * Choose
      <span class="menuchoice">
        <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
        <span class="guimenuitem">Preferences</span>
      </span>
    * Click the <span class="guilabel">Browser</span> tab
    * Type `/usr/local/bin/tor-browser %s` in the <span
      class="guilabel">Manual</span> field
    * Click <span class="button">Close</span> 

## Known issues
See the current list of [Known issues](https://tails.boum.org/support/known_issues/index.en.html).
