[[!meta title="Web assistant for getting started with Tails"]]

The web assistant will:

  - Merge download and install instructions into a single tool.
  - Integrate relevant parts of the documentation while preserving the
    documentation in its conventional format (for example for more
    advanced users or corner cases).
  - Integrate warnings.
  - Insist on the most frequent and recommended scenarios, and point to
    the documentation for corner cases or more advanced users (how to
    download using BitTorrent, how to start Tails as a VM, how to
    install using the Linux terminal, etc.)
  - Try to identify the OS of the user, and ask for confirmation.
  - Give an overview of the process before getting into it. So that
    people understand better what's going on, get an incentive to buy a
    DVD if they have a DVD drive, etc.

Open problems:

  - How to handle entry and exit points? What happen when someone in
    pointed to a documentation page for a corner case?
  - How to we deal with people leaving the assistant to restart their
    system? Do we want to propose them to print a page for the remaining
    steps?
  - How do we help better people with boot? Shall we want suggest the
    most likely keys based on the brand of the computer?
  - Decide when to ask questions about the scenario of the user: OS, DVD
    drive. Shall we ask them all at the beginning? Shall we ask them
    when needed?
  - How to explain the installation of tails-installer in Debian
    derivatives. Ubuntu has
    [AptURL](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptURL) in its Firefox.
  - How to make it easier to locate the ISO image once downloaded, for
    example to feed it into Tails Installer?
  - If we ask the user for its OS type, version, desired medium, does
    this have privacy implications? Do we want to do statistics on that?
  - What do we advice to do when the verification fails?
    - Try to download again using archive.torproject.org? Go somewhere
      else? What if torproject.org is censored?
    - What do we do with the bad ISO? Rename? Delete? Save? Analyse?
  - Investigate how we could monitor the usage of the assistant: most
    common path, failures, people leaving, etc. But this can have
    privacy issues.
  - When people leave, do we want to give them some warning,
    explanation, good bye message?
