We need to start porting Tails to Wheezy, and test it.
Work is done in the `feature/wheezy` Git branch.

**Tickets**:

* [1.1 milestone](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/roadmap#Tails_1.1)
* [[!tails_ticket 6015]]

**Current state** (2013-12-23): builds, boots. Quite some things are
broken, and many minor features had to be disabled to workaround
build issues.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Research to do
==============

Windows Camouflage
------------------

**Ticket**: [[!tails_ticket 6342]]

We need to implement the Windows Camouflage mode in GNOME3 "Classic"
(aka. fallback) mode.

### Left to do

* Metacity theme, mouse cursor theme and desktop background: should be
  set correctly in `/usr/local/bin/tails-activate-winxp-theme`, but
  isn't actually applied; perhaps changing GSettings in
  `PostLogin.default` isn't supported? We should try migrating this
  code from `PostLogin.default` to a script started from
  `~/.config/autostart/` and see if this works better; might be
  applied too late, though.
* GTK2 theme
* GTK3 theme
* icons theme
* only one GNOME panel
* many, many more settings set in the script
  (`/usr/local/bin/tails-activate-winxp-theme`) that enables all this
  when the user has enabled Windows Camouflage in the Greeter

### Resources

* The [Luna XP theme](http://winxp4life.tk/index.php#linux) we ship in
  Tails/Squeeze only supports GTK2, *but* upstream have ported it to
  GTK3 and MATE since then.
* Ubuntu's GNOME Classic is not that far from a good old GNOME2 DE:
  https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks
* The default theme (`/usr/share/themes/Adwaita/gtk-3.0/`) can be
  forked and customized.
* GTK3 Windows-like themes seem to be
  [in the works](http://blogs.gnome.org/alexl/2012/03/27/moar-windows-themes/),
  and <http://gnome-look.org/> has a few ones.
* some [customization tips](http://askubuntu.com/questions/69576/how-to-customize-the-gnome-classic-panel)

What works
==========

* Reading (IMAP) and sending email with Claws.
* OpenPGP applet symmetric enc/dec
* Roundcube webmail
* MAT cleans a PDF
* Erase memory on shutdown
* USB installer (Clone & Install)
* Iceweasel/torbrowser works
* FTP works on LAN in Nautilus
* Streaming in Totem
* Unlocking and using already created persistence
* Tails-additional-software works
* Unsafe browser
* Orca
* memory wiping on shutdown works, when triggered by the GNOME
  shutdown UI, on a system that has this feature working despite Linux
  3.11
