[[!meta title="Full synopsis for Windows USB scenario"]]

[[!toc]]

*Note: This page is part of our work on an [[*Installation
Assistant*|assistant]] for Tails. It presents the full list of
instructions for Windows user to install Tails on a USB stick.*

*Note: Before getting to the full list of instructions, people will be
presented an overview of the process. See the [draft
wireframe](https://labs.riseup.net/code/attachments/download/782/overview-20150521-tchou.pdf).*

Download and verify
===================

*Note: This section will correspond to the [[*Download and Verify Tails*
browser extension|extension]]. See the [detailed
wireframe](https://labs.riseup.net/code/attachments/download/764/extension-20150505.fodg).*

Install a temporary Tails
=========================

In this step, you will install a temporary Tails by copying the Tails ISO image on a first USB
stick using a program called *Universal USB Installer*.

<div class="note">

<p>On
this temporary Tails you won't benefit from important features like
automatic upgrades or the possibility to create an encrypted persistent
storage to store some of your personal files.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p>

</div>

1. Plug the first USB stick in the computer.

1. Click on the following link to download <span class="application">Universal USB Installer</span>:

   <a href='http://www.pendrivelinux.com/downloads/Universal-USB-Installer/Universal-USB-Installer-1.9.6.0.exe'>Download Universal USB Installer</a>

1. At the Windows security warning, confirm that you want to
run the program.

1. Read the licence agreement and click **I Agree** to continue and
start <span class="application">Universal USB Installer</span>.

1. Select **Tails** from the drop-down list.

   [[!img uui.png link=no alt="screenshot of Universal USB Installer"]]

1. Click **Browse** and choose the ISO image that you downloaded earlier.

1. Use the drop-down list to specify the USB stick on which you want to install
the ISO image.

<div class="tip">

<p>If the USB stick does not appear in the drop-down list, make sure
that it is plugged in correctly and restart
<span class="application">Universal USB Installer</span>.</p>

</div>

1. Select the **Format** option.

1. Click **Create**.

1. A warning appears. Click **Yes** to start the installation.
   The installation takes a few minutes.

1. After the installation is finished, click **Close** to quit *Universal USB
Installer*.

Open these instructions on another device
=========================================

In the next step, you will shut down the computer. To be able to follow
the rest of the instructions afterwards, we recommend you either:

   - Open this page on your smartphone, tablet, or another computer (recommended).

     [[!img tails_boum_org_blueprint_bootstrapping_assistant_windows.png link=no]]

   - Print the rest of the instructions on paper.

   - Take note of the URL of this page to be able to come back later:

     <https://tails.boum.org/install/win/usb/4-restart-temporary>

Restart on the temporary Tails
==============================

1. Shut down the computer while leaving the first USB stick plugged in.

1. Switch on the computer.

   - If the computer starts on Tails, the **Boot Tails** menu
     appears. Choose **Live** and press **Enter**.

     [[!img doc/first_steps/start_tails/tails_boot_menu.png link=no alt="Black screen with Tails artwork. 'Boot menu' with two options 'Live' and 'Live (failsafe)'."]]

     <div class="note">

     <p>Most computers do not start on Tails by default. If it does you
     are lucky. Otherwise, if the computer starts on Windows,
     refer to the troubleshooting section about
     [[!toggle id="not_at_all" text="Tails not starting at all"]].</p>

     </div>

[[!toggleable id="not_at_all" text="""
<span class="hide">[[!toggle id="not_at_all" text=""]]</span>

Tails does not start at all (troubleshooting)
=============================================

The following section applies if the **Boot Tails** menu does not
appear when starting on the USB stick.

It is quite common for computers not to start automatically on a
USB stick with Tails installed. Here are two troubleshooting techniques. You should try them
one after the other.

### Getting to the boot menu

On most computers, you can press a *boot menu key* to display a list of possible
devices to start from. The following screenshot is an example of such boot
menu:

[[!img bios_boot_menu.png link=no]]

The following instructions explain how to display the boot menu and
start on the USB stick.

1. Identify the potential boot menu keys for the computer depending on
the computer manufacturer in the following list:

   <table>
   <tr><th>Manufacturer</th><th>Type</th><th>Models</th><th>Key</th><th>Notes</th></tr>
   <tr><td>Acer</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>Esc, F12, F9</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Acer</td><td>netbook</td><td>AspireOne </td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Acer</td><td>netbook</td><td>Aspire Timeline</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Acer</td><td>netbook</td><td>Aspire v3, v5, v7</td><td>F12</td><td>Boot Menu must be enabled in BIOS. It is disabled by default. Please check manual of the computer on how to enable it.</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Apple</td><td>*</td><td>After 2006</td><td>Option</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Asus</td><td>desktop</td><td>*</td><td>F8</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Asus</td><td>laptop</td><td>*</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Asus</td><td>laptop</td><td>R503C</td><td>F8</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Asus</td><td>netbook</td><td>Eee PC 1025c</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Compaq</td><td>*</td><td>Presario</td><td>Esc, F9</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Dell</td><td>desktop</td><td>Dimension, Inspiron, Latitude</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Dell</td><td>desktop</td><td>Inspiron One 2020, 2305, 2320, 2330 All-In-One</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Dell</td><td>laptop</td><td>Inspiron</td><td>	F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Dell</td><td>laptop</td><td>Precision</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>eMachines</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>generic</td><td>*</td><td>Esc, F9</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Media Center</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Pavilion 23 All In One</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Pavilion g6 and g7 </td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Pavilion HPE PC, h8-1287c</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Pavilion PC, p6 2317c</td><td>Esc, then F9 for "Boot Menu"</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>Pavilion PC, p7 1297cb</td><td>Esc, then F9 for "Boot Menu"</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>desktop</td><td>TouchSmart 520 PC</td><td>Esc, then F9 for "Boot Menu"</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>laptop</td><td>2000</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>notebook</td><td>Pavilion</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>HP</td><td>notebook</td><td>ENVY dv6 and dv7 PC</td><td>Esc,	then F9 for "Boot Menu"</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Intel</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F10</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Lenovo</td><td>desktop</td><td>*</td><td>F12, F8, F10</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Lenovo</td><td>laptop</td><td>*</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Lenovo</td><td>laptop</td><td>IdeaPad P500</td><td>F12 or Fn + F11</td></tr>
   <tr><td>NEC</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F5</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Packard Bell</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F8</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Samsung</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F12, Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Samsung</td><td>netbook</td><td>NC10</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Samsung</td><td>ultrabook</td><td>Series 5 Ultra and Series 7 Chronos</td><td>Esc</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Sharp</td><td>*</td><td>*</td><td>F2</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Sony</td><td>*</td><td>VAIO, PCG, VGN</td><td>F11</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Sony</td><td>*</td><td>VGN</td><td>Esc, F10</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Toshiba</td><td>*</td><td>Protege, Satellite, Tecra</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   <tr><td>Toshiba</td><td>*</td><td>Equium</td><td>F12</td></tr>
   </table>

1. Make sure that the first USB stick is plugged in the computer.

1. Shut down the computer.

1. Hold down the first potential boot menu key identified in step 1
while you switch on the computer.

   - If a boot menu with a list of possible devices to start from
     appears, select your first USB stick in the list and press **Enter**.

   - If the computer starts on Windows, repeat steps
     2 and 3 for all the potential boot menu keys identified in step 1.

If none of the potential boot menu keys identified in step 1 work or if
your USB stick does not appear in the list, then try the second
troubleshooting technique described below.

### Edit the BIOS settings

You might need to edit the BIOS settings of the computer. Consult the
manual of the computer to know how to enter the BIOS settings.

In the BIOS settings, try to apply the following changes one by one and
restart the computer after each change. Some changes might not
apply to certain computer models.

1. Edit the **Boot Order**. Depending on the computer model you might
see an entry for **removable devices** or **USB media**. Move this entry
to the top of the list to force the computer to try to start from
the first USB stick before starting from the internal hard disk.

1. Disable **Fast boot**.

1. If the computer is configured to start with **legacy BIOS**, try to
configure it to start with **UEFI**. Else, if the computer is configured
to start with **UEFI**, try to configure it to start with **legacy
BIOS**. To do so, try any of the following options if available:

   - Enable Legacy mode
   - Disable Secure boot
   - Enable CSM boot
   - Disable UEFI

1. Try to upgrade the BIOS to the latest version provided by the manufacturer.

If none of these options work, please [[report the problem to our
support team|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/tails_does_not_start]].

"""]]

1. After 30&ndash;60 seconds, another screen called *Tails Greeter*, appears.

   [[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/tails-greeter-welcome-to-tails.png link=no]]

   <div class="note">

   <p>If the computer stops responding or displays error messages before
   getting to <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>, refer to
   the troubleshooting section about
   [[!toggle id="not_entirely" text="Tails not starting entirely"]].</p>

   </div>

[[!toggleable id="not_entirely" text="""
<span class="hide">[[!toggle id="not_entirely" text=""]]</span>

Tails does not start entirely (troubleshooting)
===============================================

The following section applies if the **Boot Tails** menu appears but not
*Tails Greeter* when starting Tails.

1. Restart the computer on the first USB stick.

1. In the **Boot Tails** menu, press `TAB`. A command line with a list
of boot options appears at the bottom of the screen.

   [[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/boot-menu-with-options.png link=no]]

1. Remove the `quiet` option from the command line.

1. Add the `debug` and `nosplash` options to the command line.

1. To start Tails, press **Enter**.

1. Hopefully, error messages now appear when starting Tails. You can
   [[send them to our support team by email|/support/talk]], for example by taking a
   picture of the last screen and error messages.

1. If the error message is `/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control
   turned off` followed by `(initramfs)`, then try removing the
   `live-media=removable` option from the boot command line.

   <div class="caution">

   <strong>When removing this option, if an adversary installed a fake
   Tails on an internal hard disk, then you will likely start
   this dangerous operating system instead of the genuine Tails that
   you installed on the USB stick.</strong>

   </div>

   If removing `live-media=removable` allows you to start Tails, please
   report the problem to our [[support team|support/talk]].
   This contributes to improving the [[list
   of problematic USB sticks|support/known_issues#problematic-usb-sticks]].
   Then try installing Tails on another USB stick.
1. In *Tails Greeter*, select your preferred language in the drop-down
list on the bottom left of the screen. Click **Login**.

"""]]

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

   [[!img desktop.png size=640x480 link=no]]

Install the final Tails
=======================

In this step, you will install the final Tails on a second USB stick
using *Tails Installer*.

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p>

</div>

1. After the Tails desktop appears, plug the second USB stick in the computer.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Clone & Install</span> button.

   [[!img tails_installer.png link=no]]

1. Use the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list to
   specify your second USB stick.

1. To start the installation, click on the <span
   class="button">Install Tails</span> button.
   The installation takes a few minutes.

1. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

Restart on the final Tails
==========================

1. Shut down the computer.

1. Unplug the first USB stick and leave the second USB stick plugged in.

1. Switch on the computer.

1. In the **Boot Tails** menu, choose **Live** and press **Enter**.

1. After 30&ndash;60 seconds, *Tails Greeter* appears.

1. In *Tails Greeter*, select your preferred language in the drop-down
list on the bottom left of the screen. Click **Login**.

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

Create an encrypted persistent storage (optional)
=================================================

You can optionally create an *encrypted persistent storage* in the
remaining free space on the second USB stick to store:

  - Your personal files and working documents
  - Some of your settings
  - Your encryption keys

The data in the encrypted persistent storage:

  - Remains available across separate working sessions.
  - Is encrypted using a passphrase of your choice.

Once the encrypted persistent storage is created, you can choose whether
to activate it or not each time you start Tails.

<div class="tip">

If you don't want to store any data in Tails you can stop following
these instructions and start enjoying Tails right now.

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p><strong>The encrypted persistent storage is not hidden.</strong> An attacker in possession of
the USB stick can know whether it has an encrypted persistent storage. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p><strong>Use the encrypted persistent storage only when necessary and
to the minimum.</strong>
You can always start Tails without activating the encrypted persistent storage. All the
features of the encrypted persistent storage are optional and need to be explicitly
activated. Only the files and folders that you specify are saved.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p><strong>It is possible to
open the encrypted persistent storage from other operating systems, but it might break
your security.</strong>
Other operating systems should probably not be trusted to handle
sensitive information or leave no trace.</p>

</div>

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Configure persistent volume</span></span> to
   start the *Persistence Assistant*. The assistant proposes to create
   an encrypted persistent volume on the USB stick.

1. Specify a passphrase of your choice in both the
<span class="guilabel">Passphrase</span> and <span class="guilabel">Verify
Passphrase</span> text boxes. Click on the <span class="guilabel">Create</span> button.

3. Wait for the creation to finish.

   <div class="bug">

   <strong>If the creation is interrupted before it finishes</strong>, you might not
   be able to start Tails from this USB stick anymore. This can happen if you
   close the window of the assistant or unplug the USB stick during the creation of
   the encrypted persistent storage. Reinstall the final Tails from the
   temporary Tails to fix this issue.

   </div>

4. The assistant shows a list of the possible persistence features. Each
   feature corresponds to a set a files to be saved in the encrypted
   persistent storage.

   For the time being, we recommend you to only activate the **Personal
   Data** persistence feature. You can modify the configuration of the
   encrypted persistent storage later according to your needs.

   Refer to our documentation on [[configuring the encrypted persistent
   storage|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure]] to learn more about
   the other persistence features.

5. Click **Save**.

1. Shut down the computer and restart on the final Tails.

1. In *Tails Greeter*:

   - Select your preferred language in the drop-down list on the bottom left of the screen.
   - In the <span class="guilabel">Use persistence?</span> section, choose <span class="guilabel">Yes</span> to
enable the encrypted persistent storage for the current working session.
   - Enter the passphrase of the persistent volume in the
<span class="guilabel">Passphrase</span> text box.</span>
   - If you select the <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> check box, the
content of encrypted persistent storage is available and you can modify
it but the changes are not be saved.
   - Click **Login**.

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

1. You can now save your personal files and working documents in the
**Persistent** folder. To open the **Persistent** folder choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Persistent</span></span>.
