[[!meta title="Verification of Tails reproducibility"]]

<div class="note">

After accepting to be the Trusted Verifier you should have been
instructed to go here immediately and read the "Preparation"
section. For a planned release you should be doing this weeks before
the release you are about to reproduce; for emergency releases you
likely only have days or even hours. If you were not, please file a
ticket about this, since an important part of process must have been
missed by the RM.

</div>

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="preparation"></a>

# Preparation (when accepting to be the Trusted Verifier)

Use whatever scheduling tool you prefer to make sure you will, on your
own initiative, return to this document and follow it within 72 hours
from the start of the manual testing session. In particular, do not
trust anything said by the RM about this process.

# Inputs

## Inputs from the release process

Look at the "Environment" section at the beginning of [[the release
process instructions|contribute/release_process]] and set the
following variables as instructed:

* `ARTIFACTS`
* `DIST`
* `ISOS`
* `IUK_CHECKOUT`
* `PERL5LIB_CHECKOUT`
* `RELEASE_BRANCH`
* `VERSION`

Now for the only tricky part, setting `IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS`. It should
simply list the old Tails versions that will get an automatic upgrade
to the current release, and should be set correctly by this command
most of the time:

    IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS="$(
        curl "http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/${DIST:?}/iuk/" \
        | grep --extended-regexp --only-matching \
               "Tails_amd64_[^_]+_to_${VERSION:?}.iuk" \
        | sort -u \
        | tr '_' ' ' \
        | cut -d' ' -f3
    )"
    echo -e "Got these IUK source versions:\n${IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS}"

Now sanity check the contents of `IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS`:

* If empty, the RM has probably not uploaded them yet so you may have
  to wait.
* make sure each listed version actually has been released! :)
* [[Figure out the rules for how to set this
  variable|contribute/release_process/#prepare-iuk]] and double-check
  that it makes sense! Note that exceptions happen (e.g. there could
  be a bug in some old versions upgrader so we skip it).
* If the release notes have already been written (generally there is a
  ticket about it) it should list which versions

## Inputs from the testing pad

In the "Reproducibility" section of the testing pad you'll find
clear-signed hashes for all products of this release. Verify the
signature, and put the hashes (excluding the OpenPGP signature data)
into a file called `SHA512SUMS.txt`.

## Your inputs

Set these environment variables accordingly:

* `ISOS_CHECKOUT`: path to your Tails ISO history repo checout.
* `PACKAGES_FILE`: path to the `.packages` file for this release
  (should be attached to the "Testing Tails `$VERSION`" email you have
  in your inbox)
* `PUBLISHED_ARTIFACTS`: some _new_ directory where you can download
  gigabytes of data to.
* `SHA512SUMS`: the path of the `SHA512SUMS.txt` file from above.
* `TAILS_CHECKOUT`: path to your Tails Git repo checkout.

## Derived environment variables

    cd "${TAILS_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    TAG="$(echo $VERSION | tr '~' '-')" && \
    TAG_COMMIT="$(git rev-parse --verify ${TAG:?})" && \
    git fetch && \
    git checkout "${RELEASE_BRANCH:?}" && \
    git merge "origin/${RELEASE_BRANCH:?}" && \
    PERL5LIB_VERSION="$(awk '/^tails-perl5lib\s/ { print $2 }' "${PACKAGES_FILE:?}")" && \
    if [ -z "${PERL5LIB_VERSION}" ]; then
        echo 'Failed to determine PERL5LIB_VERSION, aborting' && \
        false
    fi && \
    PERL5LIB_CHECKOUT_TAG="debian/${PERL5LIB_VERSION}" && \
    IUK_VERSION="$(awk '/^tails-iuk\s/ { print $2 }' "${PACKAGES_FILE:?}")" && \
    if [ -z "${IUK_VERSION}" ]; then
        echo 'Failed to determine IUK_VERSION, aborting' && \
        false
    fi && \
    IUK_CHECKOUT_TAG="debian/${IUK_VERSION}"

# Download published products

    mkdir -p "${PUBLISHED_ARTIFACTS:?}" && \
    cd "${PUBLISHED_ARTIFACTS:?}" && \
    mkdir tails-amd64-${VERSION:?} && \
    cd tails-amd64-${VERSION:?} && \
    wget http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/${DIST:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}.iso && \
    cd .. && \
    for old_version in ${IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS}; do
        wget http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/${DIST:?}/iuk/Tails_amd64_${old_version}_to_${VERSION:?}.iuk
    done

# Obtain needed old Tails releases

    cd "${ISOS_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    git annex sync && \
    for old_version in ${IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS:?}; do
        tails_dir="tails-amd64-${old_version}" && \
        if [ ! -d "${ISOS:?}/${tails_dir}" ];  then
            git annex get "${tails_dir}" && \
            cp --dereference --recursive "${tails_dir}" "${ISOS:?}"
        fi
    done

# Refresh iuk and perl5lib Git repos

    cd "${PERL5LIB_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    git fetch && \
    git checkout "${PERL5LIB_CHECKOUT_TAG:?}" && \
    cd "${IUK_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    git fetch && \
    git checkout "${IUK_CHECKOUT_TAG:?}"

# Reproduce Tails

## Fetch and verify the Git tag

    cd "${TAILS_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    git fetch origin "${TAG}" && \
    git tag -v "${TAG}"

* If the last output is a "Good signature" for the expected tag, made by
  Tails signing key, then we are good.

* Otherwise, if you see _anything_ else, we're _not_ good; immediately
  contact the RM and tails@! Proceeding with the rest of the steps
  are pointless in this case, so await instruction.

## Reproduce the image

    cd "${TAILS_CHECKOUT:?}" && \
    git checkout "${TAG:?}" && \
    git submodule update --init && \
    export SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH=$(date --utc --date="$(dpkg-parsechangelog --show-field=Date)" '+%s') && \
    rake build && \
    mkdir "${ISOS:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}" && \
    mv "${ARTIFACTS:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}.iso" \
       "${ISOS:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}/"

## Reproduce IUKs

Follow the [[Build the Incremental Upgrade
Kits|contribute/release_process/#prepare-iuk]] instructions. Note that
the value of `SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH` set above is needed!

# Verification

If there is *any* type of mismatch at some point below, let the RM and
tails@ know *immediately*! But still proceed and do everything below,
potentially reporting multiple different issues.

## Verify your products

    cd "${ISOS:?}" && \
    sha512sum -c "${SHA512SUMS:?}"

## Verify published products

    cd "${PUBLISHED_ARTIFACTS:?}" && \
    sha512sum -c "${SHA512SUMS:?}"

## Verify IDF

This step can only be done after the release is been made public.

Examine the IDF by running:

    curl https://tails.boum.org/install/v1/Tails/amd64/${DIST:?}/latest.yml

and checking that it matches the output of the following command:

    cat <<-EOF
    sha256: $(sha256sum "${ISOS:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}.iso" | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | tr -d '\n')
    size: $(du --bytes "${ISOS:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}/tails-amd64-${VERSION:?}.iso" | cut -f1)
    url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/${DIST:?}/tails-amd64-$VERSION/tails-amd64-$VERSION.iso
    EOF

Keep this output, you will need it below!

## Verify UDFs

This step can only be done after the release is been made public.

Examine each UDF by running:

    for old_version in ${IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS}; do
        url=https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/v1/Tails/${old_version}/amd64/${DIST:?}/upgrades.yml
        (
            echo "Looking at '${url}':"
            echo
            curl --silent --show-error ${url}
        ) | less
    done

and checking that there are either one or two `target-files`
entries:

* `type: full` means a full upgrade (so it refers to the ISO image)
  and must have the same values as for the IDF (you were asked to save
  the output above), so please verify that it matches!

* `type: incremental` means an incremental upgrade (so it refers to a
  IUK) and should match the output of:

      for old_version in ${IUK_SOURCE_VERSIONS}; do
      cat <<EOF
      Expected values for https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/v1/Tails/${old_version}/amd64/${DIST:?}/upgrades.yml:
      
      sha256: $(sha256sum "${ISOS:?}/Tails_amd64_${old_version}_to_${VERSION:?}.iuk" | cut -f 1 -d ' ' | tr -d '\n')
      size: $(du --bytes "${ISOS:?}/Tails_amd64_${old_version}_to_${VERSION:?}.iuk" | cut -f1)
      url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/${DIST:?}/iuk/Tails_amd64_${old_version}_to_${VERSION:?}.iuk
      
      EOF
      done
