## New features

- Tails now uses the <span class="application">GNOME Shell</span> desktop
  environment, in its <span class="application">Classic</span> mode.
  <span class="application">GNOME Shell</span> provides a modern, simple, and
  actively developed desktop environment. The <span class="application">Classic</span>
  mode keeps the traditional <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>,
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span> menu, and windows list. Accessibility and
  non-Latin input sources are also better integrated.

  To find your way around, [[read our introduction to GNOME and the Tails desktop.|doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop]]

  [[!img applications_menu.png caption="The desktop and Applications menu" alt="Tails 2.0 desktop with applications menu unfolded" link="no"]]

  [[!img activities_overview.png caption="The activities overview" alt="Tails 2.0 activities overview" size="512x384" link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

- Debian 8 upgrades most included software, for example:
  - Many core GNOME utilities from 3.4 to 3.14:
    <span class="application">Files</span>,
    <span class="application">Disks</span>,
    <span class="application">Videos</span>, etc.
  - <span class="application">LibreOffice</span> from 3.5 to 4.3
  - <span class="application">PiTiVi</span> from 0.15 to 0.93
  - <span class="application">Git</span> from 1.7.10 to 2.1.4
  - <span class="application">Poedit</span> from 1.5.4 to 1.6.10
  - <span class="application">Liferea</span> from 1.8.6 to 1.10

- Update <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> to 5.5 (based on Firefox 38.6.0 ESR):
  - Add Japanese support.

- Remove the Windows camouflage which is currently broken in GNOME Shell.
  We started working on [[!tails_ticket 10830 desc="adding it back"]] but [[your
  help is needed|news/windows_camouflage_jessie]]!

- Change to `systemd` as init system and use it to:
  - Sandbox many services using Linux namespaces and make them harder to exploit.
  - Make the launching of Tor and the memory wipe on shutdown more robust.
  - Sanitize our code base by replacing many custom scripts.

- Update most firmware packages which might improve hardware compatibility.

- Notify the user if Tails is running from a non-free virtualization software.

- Remove <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>, replaced by
  <span class="application">[[Icedove|doc/anonymous_internet/icedove]]</span>, a
  rebranded version of <span class="application">Mozilla Thunderbird</span>.

## Fixed problems

- HiDPI displays are better supported. ([[!tails_ticket 8659]])

- Remove the option to open a download with an external application in Tor
  Browser as this is usually impossible due to the AppArmor confinement.
  ([[!tails_ticket 9285]])

- Close <span class="application">Vidalia</span> before restarting Tor.

- Allow <span class="application">Videos</span> to access the DVD drive.
  ([[!tails_ticket 10455]], [[!tails_ticket 9990]])

- Allow configuring printers without administration password.
  ([[!tails_ticket 8443]])
