[[!meta title="Migrating from Claws Mail to Icedove"]]

Tails is replacing <span class="application">[[Claws Mail]]</span> with
<span class="application">[[Icedove]]</span> as its email client.

  - In Tails 1.7, <span class="application">Icedove</span> is available
    as a technology preview.
  - In Tails 1.8 (2015-12-15), <span class="application">Icedove</span>
    is the default email client in Tails and all users are encouraged to migrate to
    <span class="application">Icedove</span>.
  - In Tails 1.9 (2016-01-26), <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>
    will be removed from Tails.

If you have been using Claws Mail and activated its persistence feature,
the following instructions explain how to migrate your data to Icedove.

We recommend you do the migration before launching Icedove for the first
time and migrate, in this order:

  - [[Your emails saved in the persistent storage|claws_mail_to_icedove#mailboxes]]
  - [[Your email account settings|claws_mail_to_icedove#settings]]
  - [[Your address book|claws_mail_to_icedove#address_book]]

<a id="mailboxes"></a>

Migrate your emails saved in the persistent storage
===================================================

1. To know if you are using the IMAP or the POP protocol, choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Configuration</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Edit accounts&hellip;</span></span> in <span
   class="application">Claws Mail</span> and refer
   to the <span class="guilabel">Protocol</span> column in the list of
   accounts.

   - If you use IMAP, your emails are stored on the remote email server and
     you can skip this section and start [[migrating your email account
     settings|claws_mail_to_icedove#settings]].

   - If you use POP and have emails saved in the persistent storage, we
     propose in the following steps a script to migrate your emails from Claws Mail to Icedove.

1. The script only migrates the mailbox in
   <span class="filename">/home/amnesia/.claws-mail/Mail</span> which is the default
   in Tails.

   Verify that there is a single <span class="guilabel">MH</span> mailbox named
   <span class="guilabel">Mail</span> in the left pane of
   <span class="application">Claws Mail</span> like in the following
   screenshot:

   [[!img single_mh.png alt="" link="no"]]

   If you have several <span class="guilabel">MH</span> mailboxes in
   <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>, please move all your emails into
   the one corresponding to <span class="filename">/home/amnesia/.claws-mail/Mail</span>.

1. Start Tails and [[set up an administration password|first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice"><span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal</span></span> to open a terminal.

1. Execute the following command to install the `nmh` package:

       sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get install nmh

1. Execute the following command to download the migration script:

       wget https://tails.boum.org/misc/claws_to_icedove.sh

1. Execute the following command to run the migration script:

       bash claws_to_icedove.sh

   <div class="note">
   <p>If you had started <span class="application">Icedove</span> already, the script might propose you to
   back up the existing <span class="application">Icedove</span> email folders before doing the
   migration. If you have valuable data in these folders, you can access
   these folders again after the migration by doing the following:</p>

   <ol>

   <li>Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">[[!img icedove/menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Preferences</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Account Settings</span>
   </span> in Icedove.</li>

   <li>Click <span class="button">Browse&hellip;</span> in the
   <span class="guilabel">Message Storage</span> section of the
   <span class="guilabel">Local Folders</span> settings.</li>

   <li>Navigate to <span class="filename">/home/amnesia/.icedove/profile.default/Mail.</li>

   <li>Open the <span class="filename">Local Folders Backup</span>
   folder that matches the date and time when you first run the
   script.</li>

   </ol>
   </div>

<a id="settings"></a>

Migrate your email account settings
===================================

In order to migrate your email accounts you will need to use Icedove's account
creation wizard, then you'll be able to retrieve and send your emails through Icedove.

Please beware that account passwords are stored by ClawsMail in an encrypted
fashion and cannot be retrieved or migrated automatically. You should remember them.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Icedove</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Icedove</span>.

[[!inline pages="doc/anonymous_internet/icedove/account_creation.inline" raw="yes"]]

   <div class="tip">
   <p>To compare with the settings in
   <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Configuration</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Edit Accounts&hellip;</span>
   </span> in <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>, then select
   your email account, and click <span class="guilabel">Edit</span>.</p>
   </div>

1. If you want to configure another email account, choose
   <span class="guilabel">Account Actions</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guilabel">Add Mail Account&hellip;</span>.

   Otherwise, click <span class="guilabel">OK</span>.

For further documentation, refer to the [official
<span class="application">Thunderbird</span>
help](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/products/thunderbird).

<a id="address_book"></a>

Migrate your address book
=========================

To export an address book from
<span class="application">Claws Mail</span> do the following:

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Address Book</span></span>.

1. Select an address book, for example <span class="guilabel">Common
   addresses</span>, in the left pane.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Export LDIF&hellip;</span></span>.

1. Specify where to save the address book as an LDIF file, then click
   <span class="guilabel">Forward</span>. You can use the default
   setting.

1. Enter <span class="command">claws</span> as
   <span class="guilabel">Suffix</span>, then click
   <span class="guilabel">Forward</span> and
   <span class="guilabel">Close</span>.

To import an address book into
<span class="application">Icedove</span> do the following:

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Import&hellip;</span></span>.

1. Select <span class="guilabel">Text file (LDIF, .tab, .csv, .txt)</span>
   and click <span class="guilabel">Next</span>.

1. Specify the LDIF file that you exported from
   <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>, by default
   <span class="filename">/home/amnesia/claws-mail-out/addressbook.ldif</span>.

You can repeat these steps for every address book in
<span class="application">Claws Mail</span>.

Erase all you <span class="application">Claws Mail</span> data
==============================================================

Once you made sure that all your data (emails, email account settings,
and address books) is imported into <span class="application">Icedove</span>,
you can delete all your <span class="application">Claws Mail</span> data.

To do so:

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Home Folder</span>
   </span> in the top navigation bar to open the file browser.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">View</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Show Hidden Files</span></span>.

1. Open the <span class="guilabel">.claws-mail</span> folder.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Edit</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Select All</span></span>.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Edit</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Wipe</span>
   </span> and confirm.

You may also uninstall `nmh`: `apt-get remove nmh`.
