[[!meta title="Exchange bitcoins using Electrum"]]

[[!toc levels="2"]]

[<span class="application">Electrum</span>](https://electrum.org/) is a [[!wikipedia bitcoin]] client that is
particularly suited to the context of Tails because:

  - You can use your wallet from different devices and avoid
    losing bitcoins in a backup mistake or computer failure.
  - Electrum does not download the blockchain, so there is no waiting
    time when starting.
  - You can sign transactions from an offline working session for
    additional security.

To start <span class="application">Electrum</span> choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Electrum Bitcoin Wallet</span>
</span>.

To learn how to use *Electrum*, read the [documentation on the
*Electrum* wiki](http://docs.electrum.org).

For an explanation of how Bitcoin works in simple terms, read
[The In-Depth Guide to Bitcoin That Won’t Leave You
Frustrated](https://www.vpnmentor.com/blog/ultimate-guide-bitcoin/).

<div class="bug">

[[!inline pages="doc/anonymous_internet/electrum/phishing.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p>Bitcoin is <a href="https://bitcoin.org/en/faq#is-bitcoin-anonymous">not
anonymous</a>.</p>

<p>To make it harder to relate your different transactions, you should use
a different receiving address for each transaction.
<span class="application">Electrum</span> automatically generates new
addresses for you to use.</p>

</div>

<div class="tip">

<p><span class="application">Electrum</span> uses <em>mBTC</em> as the
default base unit. 1 mBTC = 0.001 BTC. To change this setting choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Preference</span></span> and open the
<span class="guilabel">Appearance</span> tab.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p>Do not blindly trust the bitcoin balance that <span class="application">Electrum</span>
displays as <em>unconfirmed</em>. Wait for transactions to be confirmed.</p>

</div>

Recovering your wallet from its seed
====================================

Backing up your seed
--------------------

Your wallet can be recovered entirely from its <em>seed</em>: the
chain of words generated by <span class="application">Electrum</span>
when creating the wallet. But if you lose your seed, you
lose your entire wallet.

That's why we recommend you both:

- Activate the [[<span class="guilabel">Bitcoin Client</span>
  persistence feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure/#bitcoin]]
  to store your bitcoin wallet and preferences across separate working
  sessions.
- Backup your seed outside of Tails. For example, you can write it down
  on a piece of paper and keep it with you.

<a name="corrupted"></a>

Fixing a corrupted wallet
-------------------------

If <span class="application">Electrum</span> fails to start or stays
minimized, maybe your <span class="application">Electrum</span> folder
is corrupted.

To recover your wallet from its seed:

1. Make sure that <span class="application">Electrum</span> is closed.

1. Open your <span class="filename">Home</span> folder.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/pan-down.png alt="menu toggle"
   class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button in the title bar and choose
   <span class="guilabel">Show Hidden Files</span>.

1. Open the <span class="filename">.electrum</span> folder.

1. Delete the <span class="filename">wallets</span> folder.

1. Start <span class="application">Electrum</span>.

1. When creating a new wallet choose <span class="guilabel">I already
   have a seed</span> and specify the seed of your wallet.
