[[!meta title="Emailing with Icedove (Thunderbird)"]]

For reading and writing email, Tails includes <span
class="application">Icedove</span>, also known as <span class="application">[Thunderbird](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/)</span>.

<div class="tip">
<p><span class="application">Icedove</span> is the name of <span
class="application">Thunderbird</span> in Tails and they are otherwise the same
program.</p>
</div>

To start <span class="application">Icedove</span> choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Icedove</span></span>.

Configure an email account
==========================

When starting <span class="application">Icedove</span> for the first
time, an assistant appears to guide you through the process of
configuring <span class="application">Icedove</span> to access your
email account.

[[!img icedove/assistant.png link="no"]]

<span class="application">Icedove</span> can connect to your email
provider using either the <span class="guilabel">IMAP</span> or
<span class="guilabel">POP</span> protocol.

  - With <span class="guilabel">IMAP</span>,
    <span class="application">Icedove</span> constantly synchronizes
    with the server and displays the emails and folders that are
    currently stored on the server. IMAP is better suited if you access
    your emails from different operating systems.

  - With <span class="guilabel">POP</span>,
    <span class="application">Icedove</span> downloads the emails that
    are in the inbox on the server and possibly removes them from the
    server. POP is better suited if you access emails from Tails only
    and store them in the persistent storage.

To know more, see also this Yahoo! Help page on [comparing the
differences between POP and
IMAP](https://help.yahoo.com/kb/mail-for-desktop/compare-differences-pop-imap-sln3769.html).

<div class="bug">

<p>The <a href="https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/automatic-account-configuration">automatic
account configuration</a> of <span class="application">Icedove</span>
is currently disabled in Tails for security reasons. You should consult
the documentation of your email provider to finish configuring your
email account manually.</p>

</div>

OpenPGP encryption with Enigmail
================================

<span class="application">Icedove</span> in Tails includes the
<span class="application">[Enigmail](https://www.enigmail.net/)</span>
extension to encrypt and authenticate emails using OpenPGP.

To configure OpenPGP for your email account, you can start the
<span class="application">Enigmail Setup Wizard</span> by choosing
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">[[!img menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Enigmail</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Setup Wizard</span></span>.

You can also create an OpenPGP key associated with your email address as
part of the <span class="application">Enigmail Setup Wizard</span>.

Enhanced privacy with TorBirdy
==============================

<span class="application">Icedove</span> in Tails includes the
<span class="application">[TorBirdy](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/torbirdy)</span>
extension for additional security and privacy.

<div class="note">
<p>Sending emails in HTML format is disabled. Emails received in HTML format
are displayed in plain text and can become harder to read.</p>
</div>

To learn more about the security properties of <span class="application">TorBirdy</span>,
you can read its [design document](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/attachment/wiki/doc/TorifyHOWTO/EMail/Thunderbird/Thunderbird%2BTor.pdf).
