[[!meta title="Networking with NetworkManager"]]

The name is quite self-explanatory – this is what you should use to
manage your network, which usually only consists of establishing an
Internet connection. In many cases this is done more or less
automatically. For example, if you are connected with wire,
NetworkManager will try to obtain network access automatically. If you
want to connect via wireless with a supported wireless adapter, you
are basically two clicks away.

Click on its icon in the notification area to find the list of available
connections:

[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/network-idle.png link=no]]
[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/network-wired.png link=no]]
[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/network-wireless.png link=no]]

[[!img networkmanager/networkmanager.png link=no]]

All wireless networks your computer is picking up are listed there, as
are all wired networks you have access to (usually one per wire), so
the second click is used for choosing any one of these. If the network
is protected you will be prompted for a password.

Mobile and Dial-Up Modems
=========================

NetworkManager supports mobile modems but do not support dial-up modems at the
moment.
[[!tails_todo Add_Gnome_PPP_for_Dial-Up_Users desc="See the corresponding ticket."]]

VPN
===

There is currently no documented method of using VPN with Tails.
[[!tails_todo vpn_support desc="See the corresponding ticket."]]
