[[!meta title="Sharing files with OnionShare"]]

[OnionShare](https://onionshare.org/) is a tool to share files of any
size securely and anonymously.

<span class="application">OnionShare</span> creates an onion address
that someone else can visit in <span class="application">Tor
Browser</span> to access the files that you want to share.

To share files with <span class="application">OnionShare</span>:

1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the files or folders that you want to share and choose
   <span class="guilabel">Share via OnionShare</span>.
   <span class="application">OnionShare</span> starts.

1. To share more files or folders, you can either:

   - Drag and drop them from the <span class="application">Files</span>
     browser onto <span class="application">OnionShare</span>.

   - Click the <span class="guilabel">Add</span> button in
     <span class="application">OnionShare</span>.

1. Click <span class="guilabel">Start Sharing</span>.

   <div class="bug">
   <p>Starting to share the files can take up to several minutes.</p>
   </div>

   When the files are available for sharing, an onion address appears at
   the bottom of <span class="application">OnionShare</span>.

   [[!img onionshare.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Send this onion address to someone else, for example, by email.

   The other person can download the files by visiting the onion address
   in <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>.

1. <span class="application">OnionShare</span> informs you when the
   files are being accessed.

   The files are not shared anymore as soon as you close
   <span class="application">OnionShare</span> or shut down Tails.

   <div class="tip">
   <p>By default, the files can only be downloaded once. To allow more
   than one download:</p>

   <ol>
   <li>Click the [[!img lib/emblem-system.png link="no" class="symbolic"
   alt="Show site information"]] button to open the settings of
   <span class="application">OnionShare</span>.</li>
   <li>Deselect the <span class="guilabel">Stop sharing after first
   download</span>.</li>
   <li>Click <span class="button">Save</span>.</li>
   </ol>

   </div>
