[[!meta title="Connecting to the Tor network"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Everything you do on the Internet from Tails goes through the Tor network.

Tor encrypts and anonymizes your connection by passing it through 3 relays. Tor
relays are servers operated by different people and organizations around the
world.

[[!img doc/about/warning/htw2-tails.png link="no"]]

You cannot access the Internet from Tails until you are connected to Tor. For
example, *Tor Browser* displays the error message <span class="code">Proxy
server refusing connections</span> until you are connected to Tor.

To connect to the Tor network:

1. [[Connect to a local network|networkmanager]], wired, Wi-Fi, or mobile.

2. The *Tor Connection* assistant appears to help you connect to the Tor network.

   [[!img tor-connection.png link="no"]]

3. Choose whether you want to:

   - Connect to Tor automatically

   - Hide to your local network that you are connecting to Tor

   The implications of both methods are detailed below.

Tor relays and bridges
======================

- **Public Tor relays**

  Most of the time, your local network does not block access to the Tor network
  and you can use a public relay as your first Tor relay.

  Using a public Tor relay as your first Tor relay makes it clear to your local
  network that you are connecting to Tor, while still keeping your online
  activity secure and anonymous.

- **Tor bridges**

  Tor bridges are secret Tor relays that keep your connection to the Tor
  network hidden.

  Use a bridge as your first Tor relay if connecting to Tor is blocked or if
  using Tor could look suspicious to someone who monitors your Internet
  connection.

  The technology used by Tor bridges is designed to circumvent censorship
  where connections to Tor are blocked, for example in some countries with heavy censorship,
  by some public networks, or by some parental controls.

  It does so by camouflaging your connection so it cannot be recognized as a
  connection to Tor. As a consequence, the same technology can be used to hide
  that you are using Tor if it could look suspicious to someone who monitors
  your Internet connection.

  Tor bridges are often less reliable and slower than public Tor relays.

Connecting to Tor automatically
===============================

We recommend connecting to Tor automatically if you are on a public Wi-Fi
network or if many people in your country use Tor to circumvent censorship.

When you choose this option, Tails tries different ways of connecting to Tor
until it succeeds:

1. Tails tries to connect to Tor directly using **public relays**, without
   using bridges.

1. Tails tries to connect to Tor using a set of **default bridges**, already
   included in Tails, if connecting using public relays fails.

1. Tails asks you to configure **custom bridges**, if connecting using the
   default bridges fails.

Someone monitoring your Internet connection could identify these attempts as
coming from a Tails user.

If connecting to Tor automatically fails, the *Tor Connection* assistant helps
you:

- [[Sign in to the network using a captive portal|unsafe_browser]]
- Configure a local proxy

<div class="note">

<p>In the future, Tails will also automatically:</p>

<ul>
<li>Detect if you have to sign in the local network using a captive portal ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])</li>
<li>Synchronize the clock of the computer to make it easier to use Tor bridges ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])</li>
</ul>

</div>

Hiding to your local network that you are connecting to Tor
===========================================================

You might need to go unnoticed if using Tor could look suspicious to someone
who monitors your Internet connection.

When you choose this option, Tails will only connect to Tor after you configure Tor bridges. Bridges are
secret Tor relays that hide that you are connecting to Tor.

Our team is doing its best to help you connect to Tor using the most discrete
types of Tor bridges. That is why, when you decide to hide that you are connecting to Tor:

<!-- Mention captive portal detection here once we have #5785 -->

- Default bridges are not available.

  You will have to know the address of custom bridges.

  To request custom bridges, you can either:

  1. Request bridges on [https://bridges.torproject.org/](https://bridges.torproject.org/bridges?transport=obfs4).

     We recommend doing so before starting Tails and ideally from a different
     local network than the one on which you want to hide that you are using
     Tor.

  1. Send an empty email to
     <a href="mailto:bridges@torproject.org">bridges@torproject.org</a> from a
     Gmail or Riseup email address.

     Sending such an email, from your phone for example, does not reveal to
     your local network that you are trying to connect to Tor.

- You can only use the types of bridges that our team considers discrete enough.

  Currently in Tails, only **obfs4 bridges** hide that you are using Tor.

  obfs4 bridges start with the word <span class="code">obfs4</span>.

<div class="note">

<p>It is impossible to hide to the websites that you visit that you are using
Tor, because the <a href="https://metrics.torproject.org/exonerator.html">list
of exit nodes of the Tor network is public</a>.</p>

</div>

If connecting to Tor using custom bridges fails, the *Tor Connection* assistant
helps you:

- [[Sign in to the network using a captive portal|unsafe_browser]]
- Configure a local proxy

<div class="note">

<p>In the future, we will make it easier to use custom bridges by:</p>

<ul>
<li>Allow you to save custom bridges in the Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 5461]])</li>
<li>Allow scanning the QR code returned by <a href="mailto:bridges@torproject.org">bridges@torproject.org</a> ([[!tails_ticket 18219]])</li>
<li>Allow requesting bridges from Tails by solving a CAPTCHA ([[!tails_ticket 15331]])</li>
<li>Synchronize the clock of the computer to be able to connect to Tor bridges more easily ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])</li>
</ul>

</div>

Viewing the status of Tor
=========================

The status of Tor appears as an onion icon in the
notification area:

[[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-status.png link="no"]]

  - [[!img lib/symbolic/tor-connected.png alt="Onion icon" link=no class=symbolic]]
    You are connected to Tor.

  - [[!img lib/symbolic/tor-disconnected.png alt="Onion icon that is crossed out" link=no class="symbolic"]]
    You are not connected to Tor.
