[[!meta title="Browsing the web with Tor Browser"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<span class="application">[Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org)</span> is a web
browser based on [Mozilla Firefox](http://getfirefox.com) but configured
to protect your privacy.

[[!img Tor_Browser/tor-browser.png link=no alt=""]]

Sending your connections to websites through the Tor network is not
enough to totally protect you while browsing the web:

- Cookies can be used to track and identify you across different
  websites.
- Security vulnerabilities in JavaScript have been used to [deanonymize Tor Browser in the
  past](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/08/attackers-wield-firefox-exploit-to-uncloak-anonymous-tor-users/).

This is why *Tor Browser* integrates all kinds of security protections
inside the browser as well.

Some frequently asked questions about <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> can be found in
[[the FAQ|support/faq#browser]].

<h1 id="confinement">AppArmor confinement, downloading, and uploading files</h1>

<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> in Tails is confined with
[[!debwiki AppArmor]] to protect the system and your data from some
types of attacks against <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>.
As a consequence, <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> in Tails can
only read and write to a limited number of folders.

<div class="note">

<p>This is why, for example, you might face <em>Permission
denied</em> errors if you try to download files to the
<em>Home</em> folder.</p>

</div>

- You can save files from <span class="application">Tor
Browser</span> to the <span class="filename">Tor Browser</span> folder
that is located in the <span class="filename">Home</span> folder.
The content of this folder will disappear once you shut down Tails.

- If you want to upload files with <span class="application">Tor
Browser</span>, copy them to that folder first.

- If you turned on the [[Personal Data|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#personal_data]]
feature of the Persistent Storage, you can also use the
*Persistent/Tor Browser* folder
to download and upload files from *Tor Browser*. The
content of the *Persistent/Tor Browser* folder is saved across different
working sessions.

<div class="tip">

<p>To prevent Tails from running out of memory and crashing, download
very big files to the <em>Persistent/Tor Browser</em> folder.
All the files that you download outside of the Persistent Storage are
stored in memory (RAM), which is more limited.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="https-everywhere">HTTPS encryption with HTTPS Everywhere</h1>

Using HTTPS instead of HTTP encrypts your communications while browsing the web.

All the data exchanged between your browser and the server you are visiting is
encrypted. HTTPS prevents the
[[Tor exit node from eavesdropping on your communications|doc/about/warning#exit_node]].

HTTPS also includes mechanisms to authenticate the server you are communicating
with. But, those mechanisms can be flawed,
[[as explained on our warning page|about/warning#man-in-the-middle]].

For example, here is how the browser looks when we try to log in to an email
account at [riseup.net](https://riseup.net/), using their [webmail
interface](https://mail.riseup.net/):

[[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/riseup.png link=no alt=""]]

Notice the padlock icon on the left of the address bar saying "mail.riseup.net".
Notice also the address beginning with "https://" (instead of "http://"). These are the
indicators that an encrypted connection using [[!wikipedia HTTPS]] is being
used.

When you are sending or retrieving sensitive information (like passwords), you
should try to only use services providing HTTPS. Otherwise, it is very easy
for an eavesdropper to steal whatever information you are sending, or to
modify the content of a page on its way to your browser.

[HTTPS Everywhere](https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere) is a Firefox extension
included in <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>. It is produced as a collaboration between [The Tor
Project](https://torproject.org/) and the [Electronic Frontier
Foundation](https://eff.org/). It encrypts your communications with a number of
major websites. Many sites on the web offer some limited support for encryption
over HTTPS, but make it difficult to use. For example, they might default to
unencrypted HTTP, or fill encrypted pages with links that go back to the
unencrypted site. The HTTPS Everywhere extension fixes these problems by
rewriting all requests to these sites to HTTPS.

To learn more about HTTPS Everywhere, you can see:

 - the [HTTPS Everywhere homepage](https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere)
 - the [HTTPS Everywhere FAQ](https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere/faq/)

<h1 id="javascript">Protection against dangerous JavaScript</h1>

Having all JavaScript disabled by default would disable a lot of harmless and
possibly useful JavaScript, and might render many websites unusable.

That is why JavaScript is enabled by default but
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> disables all potentially
dangerous JavaScript. We consider this as a necessary compromise between
security and usability.

<div class="note">

<p>To understand better the behavior of <span class="application">Tor
Browser</span>, for example, regarding JavaScript and cookies, you can
refer to the <a href="https://2019.www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/">
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> design document</a>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="security-level">Security level</h1>

You can change the security level of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>
to disable browser features as a trade-off between security and usability.
For example, you can set the security level to *Safest* to disable JavaScript completely.

The security level is set to *Standard* by default which gives
the most usable experience.

To change the security level, click on the [[!img security-level.png
class="symbolic" link="no"]] icon on the right of the address bar
and choose
<span class="guilabel">Advanced Security Settings&hellip;</span>.

[[!img security-levels.png link="no" alt=""]]

<div class="note">

<p>You can safely disregard the message, "Your browser is being managed by
your organization," which appears in the
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> preferences.</p>

<p>All this message means is that the automatic updates feature of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> has been disabled. This is done
intentionally in Tails to make sure that no security feature or configuration
gets broken by automatic updates of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="circuit-view">Tor circuit</h1>

[[!img circuit-view.png link=no]]

Click on the
padlock
in the address bar to show the Tor circuit that is used to connect to
the website in the current tab, its 3 relays, their countries, and IP
addresses.

The last relay in the circuit, the one immediately above the
destination website, is the *exit relay*. Its
country might influence how the website behaves.

Click on the
<span class="guilabel">[[New Circuit for this Site|Tor_Browser#circuit-view]]</span> button
to use a different circuit.

You can use
<span class="application">[[Onion Circuits|doc/anonymous_internet/tor_status]]</span>
to get more detailed information about the circuits being used.

<h1 id="new-identity"><span class="guilabel">New Identity</span> feature</h1>

To switch to a new identity, choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">New Identity</span></span>.

The <span class="guilabel">New Identity</span> feature of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>:

  - Closes all open tabs.
  - Clears the session state including cache, history, and cookies.
  - Closes all existing web connections and creates new Tor circuits.
  - Erases the content of the clipboard.

<div class="caution">

<p>This feature is not enough to strongly [[separate contextual identities|about/warning#identities]]
in the context of Tails, as the connections outside of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> are not restarted.</p>

<p>Restart Tails instead.</p>

</div>

For more details, see the [design and implementation of the Tor Browser](https://2019.www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/#new-identity).

<h1 id="noscript">NoScript to have even more control over JavaScript</h1>

[[!img noscript.png link=no alt=""]]

<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> includes the
<span class="application">NoScript</span> extension to:

- Protect from more JavaScript attacks. For example, cross-site
  scripting (XSS) attacks.
- Allow you to disable JavaScript completely on some websites only.

For more information, you can refer to the NoScript
[website](http://noscript.net/) and [features](http://noscript.net/features).

<h1 id="letterboxing">Letterboxing</h1>

[[!img letter-boxing.png link=no alt=""]]

The letterboxing feature of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> helps
to prevent websites from identifying your browser based on the size of its window.
Without letterboxing, websites could use
the size of the browser window to track visitors or weaken your anonymity.

The letterboxing feature of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> works
by adding gray margins to the browser window when the window is resized. The
webpage remains as close as possible to the desired size without revealing the
actual size of the window.
