[[!meta title="Viewing the status of Tor"]]

The Tor status icon and <span class="application">Onion
Circuits</span> allow you to view the status of Tor.

[[!toc levels=1]]

Status icon
===========

The current status of Tor appears as an onion icon in the
notification area:

[[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-status.png link="no"]]

  - The onion icon is not crossed out when you are connected to Tor.

  - The onion icon is crossed out while Tor is stopped or starting.

    <div class="tip">
    <p>When Tor is stopped all connections to the Internet are blocked by default.</p>
    </div>

<a id="circuits"></a>

<span class="application">Onion Circuits</span>
===============================================

<span class="application">Onion Circuits</span> displays information about
your established Tor circuits and connections.

To open <span class="application">Onion Circuits</span>, click on the
onion icon and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Open Onion
Circuits</span>.

In the left pane, there is a list of the
[[circuits|about/warning#exit_node]] established by Tor. When you connect to
a destination server, the connection appears in the list below the circuit
it uses.

In the example below, the connection to
<span class="code">check.torproject.org</span> goes through the relays
<span class="guilabel">Unnamed</span>,
<span class="guilabel">betGamersTorRelay</span>, and the exit node
<span class="guilabel">hessel0</span>.

If you click on a circuit, in the right pane are displayed technical details
of the relays composing the circuit.

<!-- Note for translators: the entry guard in use when you take the screenshot
Onion_Circuits.png is in a position to identify you. You might prefer to leave it
untranslated.-->

[[!img Tor_status/Onion_Circuits.png link=no]]

Additional Tor configuration
============================

To configure bridges, firewall, or proxy settings [[select the corresponding
option in <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>|first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]].
