[[!meta title="Logging in to captive portals"]]

Many publicly accessible Internet connections (usually available
through a wireless network connection) require its users to register
and login in order to get access to the Internet. This include both
free and paid for services that may be found at Internet cafés,
libraries, airports, hotels, universities etc. Normally in these
situations, a so called *captive portal* intercepts any website
request made and redirects the web browser to a login page. None of
that works when Tor is used, so a browser with unrestricted network
access is necessary.

Tails includes an <span class="application">Unsafe Browser</span> for this
purpose, and it can be started via the menu
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Unsafe Web Browser</span></span>.

The <span class="application">Unsafe Browser</span> has a red and yellow theme
to differentiate it from [[<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>|Tor_Browser]].

<div class="caution">

<p><strong>The <span class="application">Unsafe Browser</span> is not
anonymous</strong>. Use it only to log in to captive portals.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p>As a consequence, if you download files using the <span
class="application">Unsafe Browser</span> it is not possible to access
them outside of the <span class="application">Unsafe Browser</span>
itself.</p>

</div>

Security recommendations:

* Do not run this browser at the same time as the anonymous
  [[<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>|Tor_Browser]]. This makes it easy to not mistake one browser for the
  other, which could have catastrophic consequences.

* When using [[doc/first_steps/startup_options/windows_camouflage]]
  the red theme is disabled in order to raise less suspicion. It is
  still possible to quietly identify the <span class="application">Unsafe
  Browser</span> since it has
  English Wikipedia as its default (and only) search engine in the
  navigation toolbar. The lack of the onion icon
  is another such visual reminder.
