[[!meta title="Controlling Tor using Vidalia"]]

<span class="application">Vidalia</span> allows you to control some of the
functionalities of Tor. It is started automatically when an [[Internet
connection|networkmanager]] is established.

[[!toc levels=1]]

Status icon
===========

<span class="application">Vidalia</span> appears as an onion icon in the
notification area:

<div class="icon">
[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-on.png link=no]]
<div class="text"><strong>The onion icon is green</strong> when you are connected
to Tor.</div>
</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-starting.png link=no]]
<div class="text"><strong>The onion icon is yellow</strong> while Tor is
starting.
</div>

<div class="bug">

The <span class="application">Vidalia</span> onion icon sometimes stays yellow
even if Tor is already started. If the <span class="guilabel">Tor is
ready</span> notification appears or if you can browse the Internet using
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>, then Tor is started correctly.

Tails has other protections that would prevent your from connecting to the
Internet without going through Tor.

</div>

<div class="icon">
[[!img first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/tor-off.png link=no]]
<div class="text"><strong>The onion icon is crossed out</strong> when Tor is
stopped.
</div>

<div class="tip">

When Tor is stopped all connections to the Internet are blocked by default.

</div>

Popup menu
==========

To access more features of <span class="application">Vidalia</span>, right-click
on the onion icon to open its popup menu:

[[!img vidalia/right-click_menu.png link=no alt="Vidalia popup menu"]]

<a id="map"></a>

The <span class="guilabel">Network Map</span> feature
=====================================================

The <span class="guilabel">Network Map</span> feature displays information about
the available Tor relays and your established circuits and connections:

  - In the left pane, there is a list of all the public Tor relays. Click on a
    relay in the list to see its technical details in the right pane.

  - In the bottom pane, there is a list of the
    [[circuits|about/warning#exit_node]] established by Tor. When you connect to
    a destination server, the connection appears in the list below the circuit
    it uses.

    In the example below, the connection to
    <span class="code">irc.oftc.net</span> goes through the relays
    <span class="guilabel">PiratenNDS2</span>,
    <span class="guilabel">AxleRelay3</span>, and the exit node
    <span class="guilabel">DFRI3</span>.

  - In the top pane, there is an approximate map of where the relays of each
    circuit are located.

    In the example below, the relay <span class="guilabel">PiratenNDS2</span>
    is in Germany, the relay <span class="guilabel">AxleRelay3</span> is in the
    USA, and the relay <span class="guilabel">DFRI3</span> is in Sweden.

  - If you click on a circuit, in the right pane are displayed technical details
    of the relays composing the circuit.

<!-- Note for translators: the entry guard in use when you take the screenshot
network_map.png is in a position to identify you. You might prefer to leave it
untranslated.-->

[[!img vidalia/network_map.png link=no]]

<a id="new_identity"></a>

<span class="guilabel">New Identity</span> feature
==================================================

The <span class="guilabel">New Identity</span> feature of Vidalia forces Tor
to use new circuits but only for new connections.

<div class="caution">

<p>This feature is not a solution to separate contextual identities, as:

<ul>
<li>Already existing connections might stay open.</li>
<li>Other kinds of information can reveal your past activities, for
example the cookies stored in <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Shutdown and restart Tails instead.</p>

</p>

</div>

Additional Tor configuration
============================

  - To configure bridges, firewall, or proxy settings [[select the corresponding
    option in <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>
    |first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]].
  - It is impossible to edit the <span class="filename">torrc</span>
    configuration file using <span class="application">Vidalia</span>. See
    [[!tails_ticket 6601]].
  - It is impossible to configure Tails to act as a Tor relay using <span
    class="application">Vidalia</span>. See [[!tails_ticket 5438]].
