[[!meta title="Making a backup of your Persistent Storage"]]

<!-- XXX: These instructions should be kept in sync with doc/first_steps/persistence/rescue.mdwn -->

These instructions explain how to back up your Persistent Storage to
another Tails USB stick.

<div class="tip">

<p>If your Tails is broken and you are trying to rescue your Persistent Storage,
see our [[instructions on rescuing your Persistent
Storage from a broken Tails|doc/first_steps/persistence/rescue]].</p>

</div>

[[!toc]]

Create a new Tails to store your backup
=======================================

In these instructions, we recommend you to create another Tails to store
your backup. This way, if your Tails is lost or damaged, you will be
able to replace it immediately with your backup Tails.

<div class="bug">

<p>Your backup Tails must be version 4.14 or newer.</p>

</div>

1. Install Tails on a new USB stick on which you want to create your
   backup Tails. For detailed instructions, see how to [[install Tails
   from another Tails|install/clone#install-tails]].
   Make sure that this new USB stick is at least as large as your
   current Tails USB stick.

1. We recommend making your backup Tails USB stick look different than your
   current Tails USB stick to avoid using your backup Tails by mistake.

1. Shutdown and unplug your current Tails USB stick.

1. Restart on your backup Tails and create a Persistent Storage on it.
   For detailed instructions, see how to [[create & configure the
   Persistent Storage|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure]].

   <div class="tip">
   <p>We recommend using the same passphrase as your current Tails
   so that the passphrase is easier to remember.</p>
   </div>

1. When the Persistent Storage settings shows the list of possible
   features, click **Save** and
   exit.

   The backup process described below overrides the configuration of the
   Persistent Storage. So, it does not matter which features you turn on
   when creating the Persistent Storage.

1. Shutdown and unplug your backup Tails USB stick.

Create or update your backup
============================

1. Start on your current Tails, set up an [[administration
   password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]], and
   unlock the Persistent Storage.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Files</span></span>
   to open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Plug in your backup Tails USB stick.

1. If your backup Tails is outdated, you should upgrade it by cloning your
   current Tails using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.
   For detailed instructions, see how to [[manually upgrade from another
   Tails|upgrade/clone#upgrade]].

1. A new encrypted volume appears in the sidebar of the
   <span class="application">Files</span> browser. Click on it and enter
   the passphrase of your backup Tails to unlock the volume.

   Your backup shows up as
   <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span>.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span>
   to open a terminal with administration rights.

1. Execute the following command to backup your Persistent Storage:

<div class="caution">

<p>Make sure to execute this command <strong>from the Tails that you
want to back up</strong>: your current Tails. If you run this command from your
backup Tails instead, you will delete the Persistent Storage on your
current Tails.</p>

</div>

<!-- <li> are limited to 45em so I'm breaking the list here to prevent wrapping the long command line. -->

<p class="pre command root">rsync -PaSHAXv --del /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/ /media/amnesia/TailsData</p>

When the command finishes, it displays a summary of the data that was
copied. For example:

<pre>
sent 32.32M bytes  received 1.69K bytes  21.55M bytes/sec
total size is 32.30M  speedup is 1.00
</pre>

<div class="note">

<p>Each time you update your backup, only the files that have changed
are copied.</p>

</div>

You can now eject the <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> volume in the
<span class="application">Files</span> browser and unplug your backup Tails USB stick.
