[[!meta title="Change the passphrase of the persistent volume"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Set up an administation password
========================

1. Follow these instructions to [[set up an administration password
   |doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].


Start GNOME Disks
========================

  1. Open <span class="application">GNOME Disk Utility</span> from the menu
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span>
     </span>

Find out the device of the persistent volume
============================================

<span class="application">Disks</span> lists all the current storage
devices in the left pane of the window. When you select one of these devices,
detailed information about it is displayed in the right pane: its partitions,
its brand, its size, etc.

  1. Find which device contains the persistent volume. It should have
     two partitions, one labelled <span class="guilabel">Tails</span>, and another
     one labelled <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> which corresponds to the persistent volume.

  2. In the right pane of the window, verify that the device corresponds
     to your device, its brand, its size, etc.

Change the passphrase of the persistent volume
==============================================

  1. In the right pane, select the persistent volume partition,
     labelled <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> by clicking on it.

  2. Click on the icon with the two gear wheels and select
     <span class="guilabel">Change Passphrase...</span> from the
     drop-down list.

  3. Type your current passphrase and then type twice a new one.

  4. Finally click on <span class="guilabel">Change</span> to confirm.

  5. Enter your previously set administration password in the confirmation dialog
     and confirm by clicking the <span class="guilabel">Authenticate</span> button.

  6. You now can restart Tails and try to enable the persistent volume
     with its new passphrase.
