[[!meta title="Manually copying your persistent data to a new device"]]

These instructions explain how to manually copy your persistent data to
a new device. Follow them if you have good reasons to think that your
persistence settings are corrupted or if you want to be extra careful.

Create a new device
===================

1. Install the latest Tails onto a new device using the usual
   [[installing instructions|installation]]. Do not use the Tails device
   that might be corrupted in the process of installing the new one.

1. [[Create a persistent volume|configure]] on this new device. We
   advise you to use a different passphrase to protect this new
   persistent volume.

1. Enable again on this new device the persistence features of your
   choice.

1. Restart on the new device, enable persistence, and [[set up an administration password|startup_options/administration_password]].

Rescue your files from the old Tails device
===========================================

Mount the old persistent volume
-------------------------------

1. Plug in the old Tails device from which you want to rescue your data.

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span>
   </span>
   to open <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span>.

1. In the left pane, click on the device corresponding to the old Tails
   device.

1. In the right pane, click on the partition labeled as
   <span class="guilabel">LUKS</span>. The
   name of the partition must be
   <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span>.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/unlock.png alt="Unlock" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button
   to unlock the old persistent volume.
   Enter the passphrase of the old persistent
   volume and click <span class="button">Unlock</span>.

1. Click on the <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> partition that
   appears below the <span class="guilabel">LUKS</span>
   partition.

1. Click on the <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/media-playback-start.png alt="Mount" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span> button. The old
   persistent volume is now mounted as
   <span class="filename">/media/amnesia/TailsData</span>.

Copy your old files to the new persistent volume
------------------------------------------------

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span>
   to open a terminal with administration rights.

1. Execute the <span class="code">nautilus</span> command to open the
   file browser with administration rights.

1. In the file browser, navigate to
   <span class="filename">/media/amnesia/TailsData</span>
   to open the old persistent volume.

1. In the titlebar, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">New Tab</span>
   </span>
   and navigate to
   <span class="filename">/live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked</span> in
   this new tab.

1. Click on the <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> tab.

1. To copy a folder containing persistent data from the old persistent
   volume to the new one, drag and drop that folder from the
   <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> onto the
   <span class="guilabel">TailsData_unlocked</span> tab.

   When copying a folder, select the
   <span class="guilabel"> Apply this action to all files</span> option and
   click <span class="button">Merge</span> to apply to all subfolders.
   Then you might have to select again the
   <span class="guilabel"> Apply this action to all files</span> option and
   click <span class="button">Replace</span> to apply to all files.

   Do not copy a folder if you do not know what it is used for.

    - The <span class="filename">apt</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[APT Packages|configure#apt_packages]]</span>
      and <span class="guilabel">[[APT Lists|configure#apt_lists]]</span>
      persistence features. But it requires administration rights to be
      imported and this goes beyond the scope of these instructions.
      Note that this folder does not contain personal data.
    - The <span class="filename">bookmarks</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Browser bookmarks|configure#browser_bookmarks]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">cups-configuration</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Printers|configure#printers]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">dotfiles</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Dotfiles|configure#dotfiles]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">electrum</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Bitcoin Client|configure#bitcoin]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">gnome-keyring</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[GNOME Keyring|configure#gnome_keyring]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">gnupg</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[GnuPG|configure#gnupg]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">icedove</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Icedove|configure#icedove]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">nm-connections</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Network Connections|configure#network_connections]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">openssh-client</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[SSH Client|configure#ssh_client]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">Persistent</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Personal Data|configure#personal_data]]</span>
      persistence feature.
    - The <span class="filename">pidgin</span> folder corresponds to the
      <span class="guilabel">[[Pidgin|configure#pidgin]]</span>
      persistence feature.

1. After doing the copy, close the file browser.

1. In the terminal,
   execute the following command to fix the ownership of your personal files:

<style>
pre { max-width: 100%; }
</style>

       find /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/ -uid 1000 -exec chown -R 1000:1000 '{}' \;
