[[!meta title="Rescuing your Persistent Storage from a broken Tails"]]

<!-- XXX: These instructions should be kept in sync with doc/first_steps/persistence/backup.mdwn -->

If your Tails becomes broken, for example, it no longer starts, you can follow
these instructions to try to rescue your Persistent Storage.

<div class="tip">

<p>It is advisable to keep a current backup of your Persistent Storage. To learn
how to create a backup of your Persistent Storage, see our [[instructions on
how to back up your Persistent Storage to another Tails USB
stick|doc/first_steps/persistence/backup]].</p>

</div>

1. Install Tails on a new USB stick on which you want to rescue your Persistent
   Storage. Make sure that this new USB stick is at least
   as large as the USB stick that has your broken Tails on it.

1. Start on your new Tails and create a Persistent Storage.
   For detailed instructions, see how to
   [[create and configure a Persistent Storage|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure]].

   When the Persistent Storage settings shows the list of possible features,
   click **Save** and exit.

   The process described below overrides the configuration of the Persistent
   Storage. So, it does not matter which features you turn on when creating
   the Persistent Storage.

1. Restart on your new Tails, set up an [[administration
   password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]], and
   unlock the Persistent Storage.

   <div class="caution">

   Make sure that all applications are closed before continuing with these
   instructions. Otherwise, the Persistent Storage might not be properly
   rescued from your broken Tails.

   </div>

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Files</span></span>
   to open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Plug in the USB stick that has your broken Tails on it.

   A new encrypted volume appears in the sidebar of the
   <span class="application">Files</span> browser. Click on it and enter the
   passphrase of your broken Tails to unlock the volume.

   The Persistent Storage of your broken Tails shows up as
   <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span>.

   <div class="bug">

   <p>If an encrypted volume does not appear, then you might not be able to
   rescue the Persistent Storage of your broken Tails.</p>

   </div>

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span>
   to open a terminal with administration rights.

1. Execute the following command to rescue the Persistent Storage of your
   broken Tails to your new Tails:

<!-- TODO: Test this command. -->
<p class="pre command root">rsync -PaSHAXv --del /media/amnesia/TailsData/ /live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked</p>

When the command finishes, it displays a summary of the data that was copied. For example:

<pre>
sent 32.32M bytes  received 1.69K bytes  21.55M bytes/sec
total size is 32.30M  speedup is 1.00
</pre>

You can now eject the <span class="guilabel">TailsData</span> volume in the
<span class="application">Files</span> browser and unplug the USB stick that
has your broken Tails on it.
