[[!meta title="Warnings about persistence"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="sensitive_documents"></a>

Storing sensitive documents
===========================

**The persistent volume is not hidden.** An attacker in possession of
the device can know that there is a persistent volume on it. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.

Read also our instructions to [[securely delete the persistent volume|delete]].

<a id="overwriting_configurations"></a>

Overwriting configurations
==========================

The programs included in Tails are carefully configured with security in
mind. If you use the persistence volume to overwrite the configuration
of the programs included in Tails, it can break this security or render
these programs unusable.

Be especially careful when using the
[[Dotfiles|persistence/configure#dotfiles]] feature.

Furthermore, the anonymity of Tor and Tails relies on making it harder to
distinguish one Tails user from another. <strong>Changing the default
configurations can break your anonymity.</strong>

<a id="installing_programs"></a>

Installing additional programs
==============================

To protect your anonymity and leave no trace, Tails developers select and
configure with care programs that work well together. **Installing additional
programs may introduce unpredictable problems and may break the protections
built-in Tails.** Tails developers may not want or may not be capable of helping
you to solve those problems.

<a id="browser_plugins"></a>

Browser plugins
===============

The web browser is a central part in a system like Tails. The plugins included
in the browser are carefully chosen and configured with security in mind. **If
you install other plugins or change their configuration, you can break your
anonymity.**

<a id="minimum"></a>

Use to the minimum
==================

**Use the persistent volume only when necessary and to the minimum.** It is
always possible to start Tails without activating the persistent volume. All the
features of the persistent volume are optional and need to be explicitly
activated. Only the files and folders that you specify are saved.

<a id="open_other_systems"></a>

Access the persistence partition from other operating systems
=============================================================

The persistence partition is encrypted with LUKS. **It is possible to
access it from other operating systems, but it might break
your security.**

Other operating systems should probably not be trusted to handle
sensitive information, or to keep no traces.
