[[!meta title="Use the Tails desktop"]]

# Use the GNOME desktop

[[!img Desktop_en.jpg title="Tails Desktop as of 0.6.1" align="center"]]

**FIXME**: Upgrade the screenshot

The graphical user interface used in Tails is called [GNOME](gnome.org) and
shares many fundamentals with that of Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and
most other modern operating systems, so if you have used any of them,
getting used to GNOME will take no time. As this document is not
intended as a complete guide for GNOME there are only a few things about
it that we will mention here to spare you some time.

First of all, in the upper left corner of the screen there is a button
with a logo in it, followed by three menus: *Applications*,
*Places* and *System*.

The *Applications* menu is where you will find short cuts to the
installed applications. Please explore the different categories of
applications and try out those that seem interesting.

The *Places* menu is here to make it easy to access storage media.

The *System* menu allows to:

* customize some aspects of the GNOME desktop (*Preferences*);
* change some important aspects of the system and hardware behavior
  (*Administration*);
* shutdown the computer.

On the right of these three menu entries, a few shortcuts allow to
launch the most frequently used applications. Passing the mouse cursor
over one of these shortcut will display the application name and its
function.

In the upper right corner you will find a couple of icons, each which
offers an interface for some running application : the onion icon is
made to control Tor using Vidalia, the two computer screens are for the
network settings using NetworkManager. They will be explained more in
details in [[2_connect_to_internet_anonymously]]. Other icons help you
keep an eye on the battery level if you
run from a laptop, one allows to instantly change the keyboard layout,
another controls the sound level. Note that the clock icon allows to
change the current timezone to make it show the local time.

You are encouraged to check these icons out with the left and right
mouse buttons, but we will say more about some of them later on in
this article.

On the bottom of the screen is another panel: on its left, an icon
allows to minimize all open windows to show the Desktop; then come the
buttons for open windows; on the right, a set of four similar
rectangle icons gives access to four different workspaces.

Clicking on the icon at the bottom left you will access the Desktop. A
*Computer* icon provides access to storage media; the *amnesia's Home*
is a shortcut to the default folder where most applications save files;
then comes the shortcut to this documentation, and another allows to
report a bug in Tails to its developers; to end with, the *Trash* is the
place where "deleted" files are moved.

## <a name="nautilus"></a>Managing files with Nautilus

Nautilus is GNOME's file manager, (S)FTP client and more and it looks like this
while in file managing mode:

[[!img Nautilus_en.jpg title="Nautilus" align="center"]]

To manage local files, follow links on the desktop or from *Places* menu at top
left corner of the screen. To move files or folders, you can drag them from one
window and drop them to another.

To connect to remote FTP or SFTP server, go to *Connect to Server...* from
*Places* menu.

# <a name="live"></a>Your data won't be saved unless explicitely asked

As stated in the [[about]] page, Tails is a [live
system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Livedistro). It is important
to understand someof the consequences of that.

Starting a computer on a media containing Tails doesn't change anything on the
operating system actually installed on your hard drive: as a live system, Tails
doesn't use your hard drive during the whole session. Be your hard drive absent
or damaged, it wouldn't prevent your computer to start Tails. Consequently,
removing the CD or USB stick containing Tails is enough to retrieve your usual
operating system.

**FIXME**: Not true because of time change

A consequence of this amnesia is that you can't save anything on the device
containing Tails be it files you create or download or any configuration you
might do. You should save anything you want to keep for later access into a
separate device (other USB stck, other CD or any device you would choose).
Future versions of Tails will propose a feature to save some files or
configuration, but it is still being developped.

# Type password securely on an untrusted computer

If an attacker had access to the computer you run Tails on, she might
have installed a piece of hardware that records every key which is
pressed on the keyboard. This kind of hardware is quite common and known
to have been already used.

To prevent against giving such a device your password or encryption
passphrase, you might want to "type" them using the mouse on a virtual
keyboard displayed on screen.

The [OnBoard](https://launchpad.net/onboard)* virtual keyboard starts
automatically with Tails and
is accessible by the keyboard icon in the systray on the top left of the screen.
It can be used to safely enter passwords using the mouse
when you suspect that a hardware keylogger may be present.

# <a name="cold"></a>Protection against cold boot attacks

**FIXME**: merge with stuff in Introduction

- if the computer you are using is powered off brutally (e.g. power supply cut,
  power cable or battery unplugged, poweroff by pressing power button, …) RAM
  won't be cleared immediatly on shutdown. It will be possible to achieve a cold
  boot attack (**FIXME**: add a link) for several minutes to several hours
  (depending on the RAM model and the temperature) which would enable an
  attacker to recover everything that have been achieved during the session,
  from typed texts to saved files, including password and encryption keys.

**FIXME**: end of stuff in Introduction

What happens if the police knocks on your door when you are running
Tails? This is a tough one to deal with, and there is not that much
that can be done actually. If you are really unlucky they have brought
with them freeze spray and other equipment which can be used to mount
a [cold boot attack](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_boot_attack).
This is done in order to get the contents of your RAM. Due to how
modern computing works, basically everything that you have been doing
for a good whike is stored in the RAM, so all information – including
passwords, encryption keys and the secret plans you wrote in a text
editor but then erased – may be stored in it in plain text. The more
resent the activity, the more likely it is that it is still in the
RAM.

RAM is usually considered to be extremely volatile, meaning that the
data itstores starts to disintegrate rapidly once power is removed.
However, it has been shown that the data might be recoverable for
seconds or even minutes after this happens, and apparently freeze
spray can be used to increase that period significantly. Once the
power is restored the RAM state will keep getting refreshed, so if the
power supply is portable the removed RAM modules' contents are in the
hands of the attacker. Alternatively the computer can simply be reset
(i.e. switched off and back on quickly), which barely even affects the
power. Then a tiny LiveCD system is loaded with the ability to dump
the RAM to some writeable media. In both cases the RAM contents can be
analysed in a computer forensics laboratory which might turn into a
major disaster depending on what they find.

So, what should you do when you hear them knocking? You could just
remove the USB stick or CD you are running Tails from. It will start to
wipe the contents of the RAM by filling it out with random junk, thus
erasing everything that was stored there before, including the
encryption key of the encrypted storage devices you might use and the
traces of your session. Then you wait, possibly trying to buy
valuable time by barricading your door.

As far as the authors know cold boot attacks are not standard
procedure within law enforcements and similar organisations anywhere
in the world yet, but it might still be good to be prepared and stay
on the safe side.
