[[!meta title="Work on sensitive document"]]

Tails aims at providing a "safe" environment to produce and optionally publish
sensitive documents. 

# Office suite

Tails includes OpenOffice.org, which is a full-featured office productivity
suite that provides a near drop-in replacement for Microsoft(R) Office.

It includes a word processor, a spreadsheet and a presentation application.

You can launch them from the *Applications* → *Office*

# Graphics

Tails includes [The GIMP](gimp.org) for The GNU Image Manipulation Program for
bitmap graphics. GIMP lets you draw, paint, edit images, and much more.

For vector-based drawing, Tails includes [inkscape](www.inkscape.org).

Both are accessible from *Applications* → *Graphics* menu.

# Audio

[Audacity](audacity.sourceforge.net) is a multi-track audio editor for
Linux/Unix, MacOS and Windows. It is designed for easy recording, playing and
editing of digital audio.

# Desktop publishing

[Scribus](scribus.org) is an Open Source Desktop Page Layout accessible from
the *Applications* → *Graphics*. It can be used for many tasks; from booklets
design to newspapers, magazines, newsletters and posters to technical
documentation. It has sophisticated page layout features like precision placing
and rotating of text and/or images on a page, manual kerning of type, bezier
curves polygons, precision placement of objects, layering with RGB and CMYK
custom colors. The Scribus document file format is XML-based. Unlike
proprietary binary file formats, even damaged documents can be recovered with
a simple text editor.

# Printing and scanning

The [CUPS printing system](cups.org), which includes drivers for several common
printers allows printing, while you can scan with [Simple
scan](launchpad.net/simple-scan)
