[[!meta title="Conclusion"]]

By offering you Tails we hope that you have the technological means
to stay anonymous on the Internet. However, we want to emphasize that
staying anonymous is _not_ only a technological problem – there is no
tool, including Tails and Tor, that will magically make you
anonymous on the Internet. You will have to behave as well. While deep
technical knowledge of the architecture of the Internet, cryptology,
traffic analysis techniques and the applications you use certainly can
help (mainly by knowing what _not_ to do), we believe that some good
ol' fashioned common sense and caution will be enough in most cases.
Among other things, that includes:

* Choosing good passwords and not writing them down in unprotected
  places.
* Using end-to-end encryption whenever possible.
* Not trusting everyone and everything but being a bit suspicious in
  general.
* Making an effort for properly authenticating with everyone you are
  communicating with.
* Being very careful when dealing with identifying information such as
  name, whereabouts, the local time and so on. Any such piece of
  information that you leak will help a would be adversary to get
  closer to you.

Also, please try to follow the instructions given by security tools as
much to the letter as possible. There are situations where one can be
creative or improvise solutions, but you should really try to learn
when that is appropriate before you do it. For instance, when using
PGP encryption you are often asked to verify the authenticity of any
new public key that you have just got. If you do not do this it is
possible that you are using a compromised key sent by an attacker
performing a [man-in-the-middle
attack](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_in_the_middle_attack).
Usually the authentication works by presenting you with the key's so
called fingerprint, which is a unique identifier for that key that
cannot be faked. Verification should then be done by asking you friend
to send you the fingerprint through some safe channel, which could be
anything from telling it by telephone or VoiP (which is hard for an
attacker to manipulate on the fly) or even face-to-face (but then you
can exchange the actual keys securely instead), and then making sure
that they are the same. Assuming the channel is safe the fingerprint
sent by your friend and the one you get from the key should be
identical, otherwise something is wrong.

The above authentication methods are of course not always possible,
but here is one of those places you can be creative. For example, you
could send the fingerprint hidden in an innocent looking image by some
means, although this is admittedly not bulletproof. You could make
this method a bit safer by first sending the picture to your unknowing
recipient and telling him or her how the fingerprint is hidden when
you know that it has been received. Additionally, these kinds of
tricky exchanges are always better to make over interactive
communication channels such as IRC or with instant messaging since
that will decrease the window of opportunity for any eavesdropper to
interfere. Email is not very suitable as delays are long which gives
the attacker ample time to act. An alternative authentication method
to fingerprints, used by OTR, is to simply ask both parties of a
shared secret that both should know. In this case, do not choose just
anything – if someone is watching you they probably know which high
school you went to, the size of your shoes and similar facts.

This is probably the place where we are expected to wish you good
luck, but we will not. Relying on luck simply is not good practice in
these situations. Stay cool and be smart! Thanks for you time!

The Tor™ trademark and the Tor Onion Logo are trademarks of [The Tor
Project.](https://www.torproject.org)
