[[!meta title="Modifying the boot options using the Boot Loader"]]

The Boot Loader is the first screen that appears
when starting Tails.

You can use the Boot Loader to modify the *boot options*. Boot options are
special parameters that can be useful to troubleshoot or work around
hardware support problems. For example, our [[list of known issues with
graphics cards|support/known_issues/graphics]] document boot options for
different graphics cards.

<div class="tip">

<p>The <span class="guilabel">Troubleshooting Mode</span> of the Boot Loader disables some features of the
Linux kernel and might work better on some computers. You can try this option if you
think you are experiencing errors related to hardware compatibility while
starting Tails.</p>

</div>

[[!toc levels=1]]

Depending on the computer, the Boot Loader might be either *GRUB* or
*SYSLINUX*.

<a id="syslinux"></a>

Using *SYSLINUX*
================

This is what *SYSLINUX* looks like:

[[!img install/inc/screenshots/syslinux.png link="no" alt="Black screen ('SYSLINUX') with Tails
logo and 2 options: 'Tails' and 'Tails (Troubleshooting Mode)'."]]

<div class="note">

<p>If your Boot Loader looks different, refer to our instructions below on
modifying the boot options [[using GRUB|boot_options#grub]].</p>

</div>

To modify the boot options in *SYSLINUX*:

<!-- Keep in sync with install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline.mdwn. -->

1. Press **Tab** when *SYSLINUX* appears.

   A list of boot options
   appears at the bottom of the screen.

   [[!img syslinux-with-options.png link="no" alt="SYSLINUX with
   a list of options starting with '/live/vmlinuz' at the bottom"]]

1. Modify the boot options as needed.

   To add a boot option, press <span class="keycap">Space</span> and type the boot option that you
   want to add.

   If you want to add more than one boot option, type them one after the
   other and separate them with a <span class="keycap">Space</span>.

1. Press <span class="keycap">Enter</span> to start Tails.

<a id="grub"></a>

Using *GRUB*
============

This is what *GRUB* looks like:

[[!img install/inc/screenshots/grub.png link="no" alt="Black screen ('GNU GRUB') with Tails
logo and 2 options: 'Tails' and 'Tails (Troubleshooting Mode)'."]]

<div class="note">

<p>If your Boot Loader looks different, refer to our instructions on
modifying the boot options [[using SYSLINUX|boot_options#syslinux]] above.</p>

</div>

To modify the boot options in *GRUB*:

<!-- Keep in sync with install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline.mdwn. -->

1. Press **e** when GRUB appears.

   A new screen appears with more options.

   [[!img grub-with-options.png link="no" alt="GRUB with a list of
   options starting with 'setparams Tails'"]]

1. Modify the boot options as needed.

   To add a boot option, navigate with the arrows of the keyboard to the end of the line that
   starts with <span class="code">linux</span> and type the boot option that you want to add. The line is most likely
   wrapped and displayed on several lines on the screen but it is a
   single configuration line.

   If you want to add more than one boot option, type them one after the
   other and separate them with a <span class="keycap">Space</span>.

1. Press **Ctrl+X**, **F10**, or **Fn+F10** to start Tails.
