[[!meta title="Protection against cold boot attacks"]]

When using a computer, everything done during a session is stored in the
RAM: texts, saved files, but also passwords and encryption keys.The more
recent the activity, the more likely it is that it is still in the RAM.
Those datas can still be in the RAM up to several minutes after the computer
is powered off.

A physical access to the computer you used may enable to recover everything
you've been achieving during the session. Those datas can be recovered using
a <span class=\"definition\">[[!wikipedia Cold_boot_attack desc=\"cold boot
attack\"]]</span>. That's why when shutting down Tails, RAM is filled out with
random junk, thus erasing everything that was stored there before so all
traces from what you did on that computer.

That being said, on some computers [[Tails may not erase all the system memory
on shutdown|support/known_issues#index9h2]] or [[fails to completely shutdown
or restart|support/known_issues#index13h2]] which does not garantee that the
memory has been wiped entirely. 

Moreover, a physical access to the computer you're using Tails on, enable as
well recovering datas from the RAM. In order to avoir such recovery, use
emergency shutdown tools:

* By removing the device you are running Tails from (USB stick, SD card).
This method [[doesn't work with DVD|support/known_issues#index11h2]].

* By pressing the power button of the computer.

* By clicking on the emergency shutdown helper icon located on the top right
corner of the panel and chosing <span class=\"guimenuitem\">Shutdown
Immediately</span>.

<div class=\"caution\">[[Emergency shutdown doesn't work after using the Tails
USB installer|support/known_issues#index10h2]]</div>

As far as we know, cold boot attacks are not standard procedure for datas
recovery, but it might still be good to be prepared.
