[[!meta title="Accessing resources on the local network"]]

The term "local network" here refers to the set of computers and devices
that can be reached directly from your computer without going through
the Internet. For example, your home router, your network printer, the
HTTP proxy or intranet of your company are most likely part of your
local network, also called LAN for Local Area Network. In more technical
terms, this refers to the set of IP addresses defined in
[RFC1918](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1918).

[[!toc]]

Security considerations
-----------------------

Accessing resources on the local network can be useful in the context of
Tails, for example to exchange documents with someone on the same local
network without going through the Internet.

But an application in Tails that can connect to both services on the
Internet through Tor and services on the local network without going
through Tor could break your anonymity. For example, if a website that
you visit using *Tor Browser*, tries to include images or download other
content that are specific to your local network, then this information
can reveal where you are.

This page describes some of the security measures built in Tails to
protect from such attacks and explains how to access some types of
resources on the local network.

<div class="caution">

<p>Connections made to the local network are not anonymous and do not go
through Tor.</p>

</div>

<a id="browser"></a>

Browsing web pages on the local network
---------------------------------------

It is impossible to access web pages on the local network using *Tor
Browser*. This prevents websites on the Internet from deducing your
location from the other web pages that might be available on your local
network.

To access web pages on the local network, use the [[*Unsafe
Browser*|anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser]] instead.

<a id="http"></a>

Downloading files from web pages on the local network
-----------------------------------------------------

[[!inline pages="doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser/chroot.inline" raw="yes"]]

To download files from web pages on the local network, you can use the
`curl` command instead. For example, to download a document available on
the local network from the address `http://192.168.1.40/document.pdf`,
execute the following command:

    curl http://192.168.1.40/document.pdf

<a id="ftp"></a>

Downloading files from an FTP server on the local network
---------------------------------------------------------

To connect to an FTP server on the local network choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Connect to Server&hellip;</span></span>.
