[[!meta title="Manage passwords"]]

Tails includes the <span class="application">KeePassX Password
Manager</span>.

<span class="application">KeePassX</span> helps you to manage your
passwords in a secure way. You can put all your passwords in one
encrypted database, which is protected with one master passphrase.
So you only have to remember one single master passphrase to unlock
the whole database.

How to create a persistent password database
============================================
Using KeePassX requires a Persistent Volume. If you have not
created a Persistent Volume yet, follow [[the persistence
documentation|first_steps/persistence]] first.

0. [[Enable your Persistent Volume|first_steps/persistence/use]].

0. To make sure the *Personal Data* feature is enabled,
   use [[the persistence assistant|first_steps/persistence/configure]].

0. If you had to enable the *Personal Data* feature because it was
   previously disabled: restart Tails and [[enable your Persistent
   Volume|first_steps/persistence/use]] again.

0. To start KeePassX, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassX</span></span>.

0. To create a new password database:
   * Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">File</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">New Database</span></span>.
   * The password database is encrypted and protected by
     a passphrase.  
     Specify a passphrase of your choice on the <span
     class="guilabel">Password</span> text box.
   * Specify the same passphrase again when prompted.

0. To make the password database persist for the next times you start
   Tails:
   * Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">File</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Save Database</span></span>.
   * Enter `keepassx` in the <span class="guilabel">Name</span> text box.
   * Select `Persistent` in the folders list.
   * Click the <span class="guilabel">Save</span> button.

0. Close KeePassX.

How to use the persistent password database
===========================================

0. Boot Tails and [[enable your Persistent
   Volume|first_steps/persistence/use]].

0. To start KeePassX, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassX</span></span>.

0. When KeePassX starts, you should be prompted for the passphrase
   that protects the password database.

0. To learn how to use KeePassX, choose:
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Help</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassX Handbook</span></span>.
