Tor does not support UDP so we cannot simply redirect DNS queries to
the Tor transparent proxy.

Most DNS leaks are avoided by having the system resolver query
the Tor network using the `DNSPort` configured in
`torrc`.

There is a concern that any application could attempt to do its own
DNS resolution without using the system resolver; UDP datagrams are
therefore blocked in order to prevent leaks. Another solution may be
to use the Linux network filter to forward outgoing UDP datagrams to
the local DNS proxy.

Tails also forbids DNS queries to RFC1918 addresses; those might
indeed allow the system to learn the local network's public IP
address.

An exception to the above DNS configuration is the `clearnet` user
used to run the [[contribute/design/Unsafe_Browser]], which uses the
DNS server provided for DHCP for resolving.

[resolvconf](http://alioth.debian.org/projects/resolvconf/) is used to
configure the system resolver in `/etc/resolv.conf`; it is also set up
to prevent NetworkManager and dhcp-client to modify this file.

Since the Tor DNS resolver lacks support for most types of DNS queries
except "A", [ttdnsd](https://www.torproject.org/ttdnsd/) is also
running and offers support for all kinds of DNS queries Tor does not
know about. This can be useful for advanced users to do system administration
for example. However, ttdnsd is not used in the default name resolution
loop, mostly due to it [[being quite too
buggy|contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/DNS/ttdnsd_broken]].
It is configured to forward incoming UDP DNS requests to a open,
recursive TCP DNS resolver (namely: OpenDNS's `208.67.222.222`) via the Tor
SOCKS proxy. Completely replacing the Tor resolver with ttdnsd was
considered, but doing so would give too much power to a single
third-party, that is to the organization or people that runs the
recursive DNS resolver ttdnsd is configured to use.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/tor/torrc]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/firewall.conf]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/live/config/000-resolv-conf]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-hooks/99-zzz_resolvconf]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/default/ttdnsd]]
