<div class="trophy">

<div class="state-image debian expert mac-dvd">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails-usb.png link="no" alt="Tails USB stick"]]</div>
<div class="state-image windows linux mac-usb">[[!img install/inc/infography/final-tails.png link="no" alt="Final Tails USB stick and intermediary USB stick that can be discarded"]]</div>
<div class="state-image install-clone mac-clone">[[!img install/inc/infography/new-tails.png link="no" alt="New Tails USB stick"]]</div>

<p>Yay, you are done installing Tails!</p>

<p>If you want to save some of your documents
and configuration in an encrypted storage on the <span class="usb">final</span><span class="clone">new</span> Tails USB stick, follow
our instructions until the end. Otherwise, have a look at our
<span class="install-clone">[[final recommendations|clone#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="expert">[[final recommendations|expert/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="debian">[[final recommendations|debian/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="windows">[[final recommendations|win/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="mac-usb">[[final recommendations|mac/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="mac-clone">[[final recommendations|mac/clone#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="mac-dvd">[[final recommendations|mac/dvd#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="linux">[[final recommendations|linux/usb#recommendations]].</span>
</p>

</div>

<h1 id="create-persistence">Create an encrypted persistent storage (optional)</h1>

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/create-persistence.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>

You can optionally create an *encrypted persistent storage* in the
remaining free space on the
<span class="windows linux mac-usb">final</span>
<span class="clone">new</span>
Tails USB stick to store any of the following:

  - Personal files
  - Some settings
  - Additional software
  - Encryption keys

The data in the encrypted persistent storage:

  - Remains available across separate working sessions.
  - Is encrypted using a passphrase of your choice.

<div class="caution">

<p>The encrypted persistent storage is not hidden. An attacker in possession of
the USB stick can know whether it has an encrypted persistent storage. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p>It is possible to
open the encrypted persistent storage from other operating systems. But, doing
so might compromise the security provided by Tails.</p>

<p>For example, image thumbnails might be created and saved by the other operating
system. Or, the contents of files might be indexed by the other operating
system.</p>

<p>Other operating systems should probably not be trusted to handle
sensitive information or leave no trace.</p>

</div>

Create the persistent storage
-----------------------------

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Configure persistent volume</span></span>.

1. Specify a passphrase of your choice in both the
<span class="guilabel">Passphrase</span> and <span class="guilabel">Verify
Passphrase</span> text boxes.

   <div class="tip">
   <p>We recommend choosing a long passphrase made of five to seven random words.
   <a href="https://theintercept.com/2015/03/26/passphrases-can-memorize-attackers-cant-guess/">Learn more.</a></p>
   </div>

1. Click on the <span class="guilabel">Create</span> button.

2. Wait for the creation to finish.

3. The assistant shows a list of the possible persistence features. Each
   feature corresponds to a set of files or settings to be saved in the encrypted
   persistent storage.

   We recommend you to only activate the <span class="guilabel">Personal
   Data</span> persistence feature for the time being. You
   can activate more features later on according to your needs.

4. Click <span class="button">Save</span>.

   <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/restart-on-tails.png link="no" alt=""]]</div>

Restart and activate the persistent storage
-------------------------------------------

1. Shut down the computer and restart on the
   <span class="windows linux mac-usb">final</span>
   <span class="clone">new</span>
   Tails USB stick.

1. In <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>:

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/greeter_with_persistence.png link="no" alt="Tails Greeter: 'Welcome to Tails!'"]]

   - Select your language and keyboard layout in the
     <span class="guilabel">Language & Region</span> section.
   - In the <span class="guilabel">Encrypted Persistent Storage</span> section,
     enter your passphrase and click <span class="button">Unlock</span> to activate the encrypted
     persistent storage for the current working session.
   - Click <span class="button">Start Tails</span>.

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

1. You can now save your personal files and working documents in the
<span class="guilabel">Persistent</span> folder. To open the
<span class="guilabel">Persistent</span> folder choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Persistent</span></span>.

<div class="trophy" id="recommendations">

<div class="state-image debian expert">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails-usb-with-persistence.png link="no" alt="Tails USB stick with persistent storage"]]</div>
<div class="state-image windows linux mac-usb clone">[[!img install/inc/infography/final-tails-with-persistence.png link="no" alt="Final Tails USB stick with persistent storage"]]</div>
<div class="state-image mac-dvd">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails-usb-with-persistence.png link="no" alt="Tails USB stick with persistent storage"]]</div>

<p>You now have a working Tails, congrats!</p>

<h3>Final recommendations</h3>

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-md-6">

    [[!img lib/dialog-warning.png link="no" alt="" class="float-left"]]

    <p>Tails does not protect you from everything! Have a look at our
    [[warnings|doc/about/warning]].</p>

  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">

    [[!img lib/help-browser.png link="no" alt="" class="float-left"]]

    <p>If you face any problem, use the <span class="guilabel">Report an
    error</span> launcher on the Tails desktop or visit our [[support
    pages|support]].</p>

  </div>

</div>

<p>We hope you enjoy using Tails :)</p>

</div>
