1. Start <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> (also called
   <span class="application">Disks</span>).

   <div class="linux">
     For example, you can press the <span class="keycap">Super</span> key,
     then type <span class="command">disks</span>, then type
     <span class="keycap">Enter</span>.
   </div>
   <div class="upgrade">
   Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span></span>.
   </div>

   [[!img install/inc/icons/gnome-disks.png link="no" alt=""]]

   <div class="step-image">
     [[!img install/inc/infography/plug-usb.png link="no" class="linux" alt="USB stick plugged in the computer"]]
     [[!img install/inc/infography/plug-upgrade-usb.png link="no" class="upgrade" alt=""]]
   </div>

1. Plug in the <span class="upgrade">intermediary</span> USB stick <span class="linux">on which you want to install Tails</span>.

   <div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

   A new drive appears in the left pane. Click on it.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_drive.png link="no" alt=""]]

   <div class="step-image">
     [[!img install/inc/infography/install-tails.png link="no" class="linux" alt=""]]
     [[!img install/inc/infography/install-upgrade-usb.png link="no" class="upgrade" alt=""]]
   </div>

1. Click on the
   [[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button in
   the titlebar and choose
   <span class="guimenuitem">Restore Disk Image&hellip;</span>.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_menu.png link="no" alt=""]]

   If your version of <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> is
   old it might have a
   [[!img lib/emblem-system.png alt="System" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button instead. Click on the
   [[!img lib/emblem-system.png alt="System" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button and choose
   <span class="guimenuitem">Restore Disk Image&hellip;</span>.

   <!-- Note for technical writers:
	The gear menu seems to have been replaced by the hamburger menu
        in 3.14, see GNOME#732980. That's Debian Stretch (9) and Ubuntu Xenial (16.04).
        Let's wait until Buster is out before removing this clause. -->

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_system.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Restore Disk Image</span> dialog, click on
   the file selector button and choose the USB image that you downloaded
   earlier.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Start Restoring&hellip;</span> button.

1. In the confirmation dialog click <span class="button">Restore</span>. The
   installation takes a few minutes.

1. After the installation is finished, click on the
   [[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button.
