   <div class="step-image usb">[[!img install/inc/infography/plug-usb.png link="no" alt="USB stick plugged in the computer"]]</div>
   <div class="step-image upgrade">[[!img install/inc/infography/plug-upgrade-usb-only.png link="no" alt="USB stick plugged on the left"]]</div>

1. Plug in the USB stick on which you want to install
   <span class="usb">Tails</span>
   <span class="upgrade">the intermediary Tails</span>.

   <div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

   <div class="note upgrade"><p>The persistent storage of your Tails USB stick will not be
   copied to the temporary Tails.</p></div>

1. <p class="mac upgrade-mac">
   Open <span class="application">Finder</span> and choose
   <span class="application">Etcher</span> in
   <span class="guilabel">Applications</span>.
   </p>

   <p class="windows upgrade-windows">
   Open the <span class="application">Etcher</span> download.
   </p>

   At the security warning, confirm that you want to open
   <span class="application">Etcher</span>.

   <span class="application">Etcher</span> starts.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/etcher_in_mac.png class="mac upgrade-mac" link="no" alt=""]]
   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/etcher_in_windows.png class="windows upgrade-windows" link="no" alt=""]]

1. Click the <span class="button">Select image</span> button.

   Choose the USB image that you downloaded earlier.

   <div class="note">
   <p>Make sure that the USB image has an
   <span class="filename">.img</span> file extension.</p>

   <p>If the image has an <span class="filename">.iso</span> file
   extension, it is not the correct image. Please go back to the
   <span class="windows">[[download step for installing from Windows|win/usb-download]]</span>
   <span class="mac">[[download step for installing from macOS|mac/usb-download]]</span>.
   <span class="upgrade-windows">[[download step for upgrading from Windows|upgrade/win-download]]</span>
   <span class="upgrade-mac">[[download step for upgrading from macOS|upgrade/mac-download]]</span>.</p>
   </div>

1. Etcher should automatically select your USB stick. Otherwise, click the
   <span class="button">Change</span> link to choose a different USB stick.

   <div class="step-image usb">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-tails.png link="no" alt="USB image installed on USB stick"]]</div>
   <div class="step-image upgrade">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-upgrade-usb-only.png link="no" alt="USB image installed on USB stick on the left"]]</div>

1. Click <span class="button">Flash</span>.

   Enter your password if you are asked for it.

   The installation takes a few minutes.

   After installing Tails, <span class="application">Etcher</span> verifies the
   installation.

   <div class="bug">
   <p>If the verification of <span class="application">Etcher</span>
   fails, try to install again or to use a different USB
   stick.</p>
   </div>

1. Close <span class="application">Etcher</span>.

   <p class="mac upgrade-mac">
   If a notification about the USB stick not being readable appears,
   click <span class="button">Eject</span> to eject the USB stick.
   </p>
