   Tails does not start entirely
   -----------------------------

   The following section applies if the <span class="guilabel">Boot Tails</span> menu appears but not
   <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> when starting Tails.

   1. Restart the computer on the first USB stick.

   1. In the <span class="guilabel">Boot Tails</span> menu, choose the <span class="guilabel">failsafe</span>
   mode which might work better on some computers.

   1. If the <span class="guilabel">failsafe</span> mode does not work
   better, restart the computer again on the first USB stick.

   1. In the <span class="guilabel">Boot Tails</span> menu, press
   <span class="keycap">TAB</span>. A command line with a list
   of boot options appears at the bottom of the screen.

      [[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/boot-menu-with-options.png class="screenshot" link="no"]]

   1. Press the <span class="keycap">Backspace</span> key several times to
      remove the <span class="code">quiet</span> option from the command line.

   1. Type `debug nosplash` to add these options to the command line.

   1. To start Tails, press <span class="keycap">Enter</span>.

   1. Hopefully, error messages now appear when starting Tails. You can
      [[send them to our support team by email|support/talk]], for example by taking a
      picture of the last screen and error messages.

   1. If the error message is <span class="code">/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control
      turned off</span> followed by <span class="code">(initramfs)</span>, then try removing the
      <span class="code">live-media=removable</span> option from the boot command line.

      If removing <span class="code">live-media=removable</span> allows you to start Tails, please
      report the problem to our [[support team|support/talk]].
      This contributes to improving the [[list
      of problematic USB sticks|support/known_issues#problematic-usb-sticks]].
      Then try installing Tails on another USB stick.

   <div class="caution">
   <p>Removing the <span class="code">live-media=removable</span> option
   might be dangerous. If an adversary had access to the computer and
   installed a malicious Tails on an internal hard disk, the computer
   might start on the malicious Tails instead of on the USB stick.</p>
   </div>
