Restart on the <span class="usb">final</span><span class="clone">new</span> Tails
=================================================================================


1. Shut down the computer.

1. Unplug the <span class="usb">first</span><span class="clone">other</span> USB stick and leave the <span class="usb">second</span><span class="clone">new</span> USB stick plugged in.

   <div class="step-image">[[!img inc/infography/restart-on-final-tails.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Switch on the computer.

   <p class="mac">Immediately press-and-hold the
   <span class="keycap">Option</span> key until a list of possible startup
   disks appears.</p>

   <div class="note windows linux">
   <p>Some computers start successfully on the temporary Tails but fail
   to start on the final Tails. If this is your case, refer to the
   troubleshooting section about [[!toggle id="not_at_all" text="Tails
   not starting at all"]].</p>
   </div>

   [[!toggleable id="not_at_all" text="""
   <span class="hide">[[!toggle id="not_at_all" text=""]]</span>

   [[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/not_at_all.inline" raw="yes"]]

   """]]

   <div class="bug mac">
   <p>If your computer fails to start on the final Tails, you can
   continue using the temporary Tails. On this temporary Tails you
   cannot benefit from automatic upgrades or create an encrypted
   persistent storage.</p>
   <p>You should still have a look at our
   <span class="mac-usb">[[final recommendations|mac/usb#recommendations]].</span></p>
   </div>

1. In the **Boot Tails** menu, choose **Live** and press **Enter**.

1. After 30&ndash;60 seconds, *Tails Greeter* appears.

1. In *Tails Greeter*, select your preferred language in the drop-down
list on the bottom left of the screen. Click **Login**.

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

<div class="trophy">

<p>Yeah, you are done installing Tails!</p>

<p>If you want to save some documents
and configuration in an encrypted storage on the <span class="usb">second</span><span class="clone">new</span> Tails USB stick, follow
our instructions until the end. Otherwise, have a look at our
<span class="windows-usb">[[final recommendations|win/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="windows-clone">[[final recommendations|win/clone#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="mac-usb">[[final recommendations|mac/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="debian-clone">[[final recommendations|debian/clone#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="linux-usb">[[final recommendations|linux/usb#recommendations]].</span>
<span class="linux-clone">[[final recommendations|linux/clone#recommendations]].</span>
</p>

</div>
