Restart on the <span class="usb">temporary</span><span class="clone">other</span> Tails
=======================================================================================

<div class="step-image">
[[!img inc/infography/plug-source-usb.png link="no" class="clone"]]
[[!img inc/infography/restart-on-temporary-tails.png link="no"]]
</div>

1. <p class="usb">Shut down the computer while leaving the first USB stick plugged in.</p>
   <p class="clone">Shut down the computer.</p>
   <p class="clone">Plug in the other Tails USB stick that you want to install from.</p>

1. Switch on the computer.

   If the computer starts on Tails, the **Boot Tails** menu
   appears. Choose **Live** and press **Enter**.

     [[!img doc/first_steps/start_tails/tails_boot_menu.png link=no alt="Black screen with Tails artwork. 'Boot menu' with two options 'Live' and 'Live (failsafe)'."]]

   <div class="note">
   <p>Most computers do not start on Tails by default. If it does you
   are lucky. Otherwise, if the computer starts on
   <span class="windows">Windows,</span>
   <span class="linux">Linux,</span> refer to the
   troubleshooting section about [[!toggle id="not_at_all" text="Tails
   not starting at all"]].</p>
   </div>

   [[!toggleable id="not_at_all" text="""
   <span class="hide">[[!toggle id="not_at_all" text=""]]</span>

   [[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/not_at_all.inline" raw="yes"]]

   """]]

1. After 30&ndash;60 seconds, another screen called *Tails Greeter*, appears.

   [[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/tails-greeter-welcome-to-tails.png link=no]]

   <div class="note">
   <p>If the computer stops responding or displays error messages before
   getting to <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>, refer to
   the troubleshooting section about
   [[!toggle id="not_entirely" text="Tails not starting entirely"]].</p>
   </div>

   [[!toggleable id="not_entirely" text="""
   <span class="hide">[[!toggle id="not_entirely" text=""]]</span>

   [[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/not_entirely.inline" raw="yes"]]

   """]]

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

   [[!img inc/screenshots/desktop.png size=640x480 link=no]]

<div class="trophy">

<p>
<span class="usb">The most difficult part is over! Now grab your second USB stick as it is time to
install the final Tails on it.</span>
<span class="clone">This was a first but important step! Now grab the new USB stick
on which you want to install Tails.</span>
</p>

</div>
