[[!meta title="Privacy loving Linux generalist"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/staff]]

[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

**This job application is closed. Applications received after April 2,
  2020, will not be considered.**

[[!toc levels=2]]

Summary
=======

Tails, a portable operating system that protects your privacy and
avoids censorship, is looking for a Linux generalist to strengthen
our Foundations Team. The Foundations Team is responsible for maintaining
the core Tails system.

About Tails
===========

[[!inline pages="jobs/about_tails" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

Details
=======

### Role description

You are a Linux generalist who likes analyzing and solving technical problems
in many different areas of a GNU/Linux system.

You will join our Foundations Team, whose [[_many_
responsibilities|contribute/working_together/roles/foundations_team/]]
are divided among its members. We do not expect any single member to
take all these responsibilities themselves — it's a team effort!

Our main activity is what we call "plumbing": gluing things together
without necessarily understanding in depth every individual part.

You can dedicate at least 16 hours a week to Tails, although 20 hours
a week or more award bonus points.

You will primarily use asynchronous communication channels to work
remotely with other Foundations Team members and Tails people, who live
across different time zones and have various degrees of involvement.
We will meet in person a few times every year and will try to coordinate
and remotely work together at the same time.

You will be part of the Tails community, that includes paid workers and
volunteer contributors. Together we are in charge of maintaining not
only an operating system, but also this community. Together, we will
discuss, design, and implement changes about various social and
organizational aspects of the Tails project.

### Requirements

We encourage you to apply if you:

* Have significant experience with GNU/Linux, and system
  administration basics.

  Ideally this would be on Debian or one of its derivatives.  
  If your experience is about other Linux environments,
  that's fine: be ready to learn lots of Debian-specific stuff!

* Are interested in _how_ a group of humans communicate, express & hear
  needs & feelings, handle crisis & conflicts, organize work, and
  make decisions.

* Have a bit more than beginner level at:

   - one programming language among Python, Ruby, and Perl
   - POSIX-like shell scripting, such as Bash

* Have good skills in English, both written and verbal.

* Have guts feelings or ethical reasons to be interested in online
  privacy.

* Like to learn new stuff: Tails is big and you probably don't know
  everything yet — nobody does!

### Working conditions

Given how Tails work is organized, you will:

* Work primarily remotely and asynchronously with other people, who may
  live in a different time zone.

  We use GitLab, email, Jabber/XMPP, and voice calls.  
  We also meet in person a few times a year.

* Be responsible to organize your work and time with the project's
  priorities in mind.

* Participate in self-organizing a team whose members have varying
  degrees of involvement and complementary skill sets.

  For example: attend remote and face to face team meetings, triage
  bugs together, collectively build a roadmap.

If you are part of a group that is under-represented in Free and Open
Source Software communities, we particularly encourage you to apply.
We acknowledge that our project and team are not as diverse as we would
like them to be. We understand that we're part of the problem.
We want to be part of the solution.

How to apply
============

Send an email to <tails-foundations@boum.org>.

<style>
.apply-portfolio { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
