[[!meta title="Technical writer"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="jobs" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!tag job/consultancy]]

**This job application is closed.**

[[!toc levels=2]]

Summary
=======

Tails, a portable operating system that protects privacy and helps avoid
censorship, is looking for a technical writing consultant to strengthen
our Technical Writing team. The Technical Writing team is responsible
for writing our user documentation, support pages, and release notes.

This is a paid offer for self-employed freelancers.

About Tails
===========

[[!inline pages="jobs/about_tails" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

Details
=======

### Role description

As a technical writer working for Tails, you will:

- Update our user documentation to changes in Tails: new features,
  smaller updates, and changes in the included software.

- Improve our support pages to answer frequent questions and document
  known issues and workarounds.

- Redact release notes to describe the changes in new versions of Tails
  and how they affect users.

- Communicate with our engineers, UX designer, and help desk to get a
  detailed understanding of the topic and discuss priorities.

- Help our UX designer write text for user interfaces.

- Apply, maintain, and improve our writing style guide.

- Improve the structure and information architecture of our user
  documentation and support pages.

You will be part of the Technical Writing team and work with 2 other
technical writers to decide priorities, assign tasks, and review each
other's work. You and your team will be responsible to self-organize
your work and time with the project's priorities in mind.

You will work remotely and use mostly asynchronous communication
channels (email and bug tracker) to work with your team and other people
in the project, who live in different time zones and have various
degrees of involvement. We also use Jabber/XMPP and voice calls for
synchronous communication.

You will be part of the Tails community, which includes paid workers and
volunteer contributors. Together, we are in charge of maintaining not
only an operating system but also the good health of the community.
Together, we continuously discuss and improve various social and
organizational aspects of the Tails project.

We will meet in person at least once a year during the annual gathering
of all regular Tails contributors (usually in Europe).

You will have the opportunity to represent Tails in other international
events, if you want to.

### Qualifications

- If you are part of a group that is under-represented in Free and Open
  Source Software communities, we particularly encourage you to apply.
  We acknowledge that our community is not as diverse as we would like
  it to be. We understand that we are part of the problem. We want to be
  part of the solution.

- You can dedicate between 10 and 20 hours to Tails every month.

- Experience working in technical writing of software documentation.

- Good written skills in English. Most of our documentation was not
  written by native speakers, therefore being an English native speaker
  is a plus but not a requirement.

- Some experience adapting your writing style to the context and the
  audience. For example, using plain language, writing
  for the web techniques, or technical communication style guides.

- Some experience using Linux.

- Interest in how people in a team organize their work and communicate
  about it, share their needs and feelings, make decisions, and share
  responsibilities.

### Optional skills

Additionally, we would love it if you have:

- Experience with some of the tools of [*docs as
  code*](https://www.writethedocs.org/guide/docs-as-code/) workflows:

  - Issue trackers: we use GitLab and Redmine but you might already know
    GitHub
  - Version-control software: we use Git but you might already know
    Subversion or Mercurial
  - Plain text markup: we use Markdown but you might already know
    reStructuredText or Textile
  - Static site generators: we use ikiwiki but you might already know
    Hugo, Jekyll, or Sphinx

- Experience participating in Open Source, Free Software, Internet
  freedom communities, or digital privacy tools.

- Basic knowledge of web technologies: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, etc.

How to apply
============

Send an email to <sajolida@pimienta.org>.

<style>
.apply-cover-letter, .apply-contributions { display: none; }
</style>

[[!inline pages="jobs/apply" raw="yes" sort="age"]]
