[[!meta title="Installing Tails on a USB stick from Mac using the command line"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="bootstrap" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/assistant" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/dave" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/steps" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/mac-usb" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta script="install/inc/js/dave"]]

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/os-mac.png link="no"]]</div>

<p class="start">Start in Mac OS X.</p>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/tails-installation-assistant.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/download.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_intermediary_intro.inline" raw="yes"]]

  1. Open <span class="application">Terminal</span> from
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal.app</span></span>.

  1. Execute the following command:

        diskutil list

     It returns a list of the storage devices on the system. For example:

        $ diskutil list
        /dev/disk0
          #:                     TYPE NAME         SIZE      IDENTIFIER
          0:    GUID_partition_scheme             *500.1 GB  disk0
          1:                      EFI              209.7 MB  disk0s1
          2:                Apple_HFS MacDrive     250.0 GB  disk0s2
          3:                      EFI              134.1 GB  disk0s3
          4:     Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP     115.5 GB  disk0s4

     <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/plug-first-usb.png link="no"]]</div>

  1. Plug the first USB stick in the computer.

  1. Execute again the same command:

        diskutil list

     Your USB stick appears as a new device in the list. Check
     that its size corresponds to the size of your USB stick.

        $ diskutil list
        /dev/disk0
          #:                     TYPE NAME         SIZE      IDENTIFIER
          0:    GUID_partition_scheme             *500.1 GB  disk0
          1:                      EFI              209.7 MB  disk0s1
          2:                Apple_HFS MacDrive     250.0 GB  disk0s2
          3:                      EFI              134.1 GB  disk0s3
          4:     Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP     115.5 GB  disk0s4
        /dev/disk1
          #:                     TYPE NAME         SIZE      IDENTIFIER
          0:   FDisk_partition_scheme             *4.0 GB    disk1
          1:                Apple_HFS Untitled 1   4.0 GB    disk1s1

  1. Take note of the *device name* of your USB stick.
     In this example, the USB stick is 4.0 GB and its device name is <span class="code">/dev/disk1</span>.
     Yours might be different.

     <div class="caution">
     <p>If you are unsure about the device name, you should stop proceeding or
     <strong>you risk overwriting any hard disk on the system</strong>.</p>
     </div>

  1. Execute the following command to safely remove the USB stick. Replace <span class="code">[device]</span>
     with the device name found in step 5.

        diskutil unmountDisk [device]

     <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-intermediary-tails.png link="no"]]</div>

  1. Execute the following command to copy the ISO image that you
downloaded earlier to the USB stick. Replace:

     - <span class="code">[tails.iso]</span> with the path to the ISO image

       <div class="tip">
       <p>If you are unsure about the path to the ISO image, you can insert the
       correct path by dragging and dropping the icon of the ISO image from
       <span class="application">Finder</span> onto <span class="application">
       Terminal</span>.</p>
       </div>

     - <span class="code">[device]</span> with the device name found in step 5

       <div class="tip">
       <p>You can try to add <span class="code">r</span> before <span class="code">disk</span> to make the installation faster.</p>
       </div>

     <pre>dd if=[tails.iso] of=[device] bs=16m && sync</pre>

     You should get something like this:

      dd if=/Users/me/tails-i386-1.3.iso of=/dev/rdisk9 bs=16m && sync

     If no error message is returned, Tails is being copied on the USB
     stick. The copy takes some time, generally a few minutes.

     <div class="tip">
     <p>If you get a <span class="guilabel">Permission denied</span> error, try
     adding <code>sudo</code> at the beginning of the command:</p>

     <pre>sudo dd if=[tails.iso] of=[device] bs=16m && sync</pre>

     </div>

     The installation is complete once the command prompt reappeared.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_intermediary_outro.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/switch.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_final.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_second_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/you_are_done.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence.inline" raw="yes"]]
