This is about [[!tails_ticket 8471]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

Misc. notes
===========

Regarding the success seen with `bootia32.efi`: why would a 32-bit
GRUB2 EFI boot loader automatically chainload to our syslinux?

Or is it that `bootia32.efi` is actually from another El Torito image,
that ships syslinux?

Debian's relevant code lives in the debian-cd, grub2 and
debian-installer Git repositories. Look for `bootia32.efi`.

Maybe also copy to `EFI/BOOT/boot.efi`: grub2's changelog says that
`grub-install` copies `bootia32.efi` to `boot.efi`, to better support
old Macs:

 * doesn't work for me on a MacBook Air original 1.8 GHz A1237

Risk of regressions
-------------------

Here we discuss the risk of regressions, for hardware that previously
booted Tails just fine, if we shipped a 32-bit UEFI boot loader in our
hybrid ISO image.

XXX: I (intrigeri) am waiting for answers by an expert in this domain.

What we know so far:

* Early Intel Macs cannot boot from a DVD with more than one El Torito
  boot record. But we're not considering supporting EFI boot off DVD
  yet, so for now it's a non-issue. And when we'll have to consider
  supporting this feature, chances are that most such machines are
  dead anyway.

<a id="hardware"></a>

Potential hardware
==================

Current selection
-----------------

* in the cheapest range: WinBook TW700
* with 2GB of RAM:
  - Dell Venue 8 Pro 5000
  - Toshiba Encore 2
  - perhaps ASUS VivoTab 8, once it's confirmed to be 32-bit UEFI that
    can boot GNU/Linux

Boots GNU/Linux from USB
------------------------

All of the following tablets are based on the Intel Bay Trail platform
with 32-bit UEFI firmware and ship with Windows 8.1 except where
noted. LCD resolutions are generally 1,280x800 pixels, except
where noted.

They have all been reported to run GNU/Linux from USB with the right
boot code, but device drivers are sometimes a problem.

There are significant variations in specific firmware features among
these devices. For example, it's unclear if all of these models can
cold-boot from USB, or if some may need to start Windows and then use
the "boot from USB" feature. Most have Secure Boot enabled by default,
but this feature can usually be disabled.

 * Acer Aspire Switch 10
   - $300
   - 2 GB RAM, 10", hybrid

 * Asus T100
   - $290
   - 2 GB RAM, 10", hybrid
   - hardware support on Linux was not entirely awful a year ago, but
     requires proprietary firmware; not sure where things are at now

 * Asus T100TA
   - $300
   - 2 GB RAM, 10", hybrid
   - 1 USB + 1 micro USB
   - does the T100's hardware support status apply here too?

 * Dell Venue 8 Pro 3000
   - $170
   - 1 GB RAM, 8"
   - cold-boot from USB: [seems
     possible](https://www.happyassassin.net/2013/11/24/the-fedlet-revived-or-fedora-linux-on-a-dell-venue-8-pro-bay-trail/)
     1. Requires a USB OTG converter (full-size USB female port on one end,
        micro-USB male connector on the other end)
     2. "press the power button and hold down the 'volume down' key
        for a couple of seconds (this is how you get into the
        firmware), go to the Boot tab, disable Secure Boot, and
        promote the USB stick to #1 in the boot order"

 * Dell Venue 8 Pro 5000
   - $210
   - 2 GB RAM, 8"
   - cold-boot from USB: likely the same as the Dell Venue 8 Pro 3000

 * Dell Venue 8 7000
   - Ships with Android KitKat; Lollipop due later in 2015
   - $400
   - 2 GB RAM/16 GB flash
   - Notable for high-res 8.4" 2,560x1,600 OLED display
   - Also includes Intel RealSense multiple-camera subsystem
   - No cold-boot nor warm-boot from USB, according to png.
     Perhaps it's possible after [unlocking its
     bootloader](http://unlock-bootloader.info/mp3-0/dell-venue-8-7000-6714.html)

 * HP Stream 7
   - $100
   - 1 GB RAM/16 GB flash, 7"
   - hardware support on Linux seems not entirely awful, but requires
     a few out-of-tree drivers:
     <https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2261294>

 * HP Stream 8
   - $150
   - 1 GB RAM, 7"
   - Includes 4G WWAN modem with limited free T-Mobile Internet service
   - Believed to be generally similar to the HP Stream 7 otherwise
   - Can cold-boot from USB:
     1. Hold down Vol-, press Power for about a second, and release
        Vol- when the boot options screen comes up.
     2. That screen gives access to a Boot Device Options menu, BIOS
        Setup, and other functions including an on-screen keyboard.
     3. In the Boot Options Menu, one can select Boot from EFI File
        and push the soft Enter key… and then, with a Tails boot
        drive, it goes to a File Explorer screen to allow the user to
        choose between booting from the Tails volume and the NO VOLUME
        LABEL volume on the USB thumb drive. Sadly, there's no way to
        press Enter! The Stream 8 has a capacitive Windows button on
        the bezel, and that just isn’t active at this point.
        There isn’t a timeout autoselect for the first (presumably
        correct) option, either.
     4. This should all work fine by plugging an OTG-Type A adapter
        cable, a USB hub, a USB thumb drive, and a keyboard.
        This should be good enough for development, but not for
        actual users.

 * Lenovo Miix 2
   - $220
   - 2 GB RAM

 * Toshiba Encore 2
   - $100 with 1 GB RAM/16 GB flash, 8"
   - $140 with 2 GB RAM/32 GB flash, 8"
   - 10" LCD models also available
   - can cold-boot from USB: hold down the Vol+ button, then hold down
     the Power button, until the boot selection menu appears.
     Select the desired boot device and press the Windows key.

* Toshiba Encore 2 Write
   - Includes Wacom Feel pen/touch digitizer; unusual among low-cost
     x86 tablets, enables good handwriting recognition and artistic
     drawing
   - Otherwise apparently similar to Encore 2
   - 8-inch version retails for $350
   - 10.1-inch model priced at $400

 * WinBook TW700:
   - $60
   - 1 GB RAM/16GB flash, 7"
   - To cold-boot from USB:
     1. Configure the UEFI BIOS to put "USB HD"
        above the Windows Boot Manager or the internal eMMC storage.
     2. Plug the USB device in the Type A port, not the Micro
        USB OTG port.
     3. Then the tablet will boot from USB without pushing any
        buttons, and one can still use the OTG port to power the
        tablet while running from Tails.

Needs more research
-------------------

 * ASUS VivoTab 8
   - $190
   - Bay Trail, 2 GB RAM, 8"
   - 32-bit UEFI?


Boots current Tails and thus uninteresting here
-----------------------------------------------

 * HP Slate 500
 * Samsung Series 7 Slate
 * Microsoft Surface Pro
