[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="known_issues">

Known issues
============

See [[support/known issues]].

Miscellaneous test results
==========================

* With Lenovo Yoga 2 Pro, the UEFI nightly release does work, while it didn't
  work previously.
* boots on ThinkPad X220 (syslinux 6.02+dfsg-1 and
  3:6.03~pre1+dfsg-1~bpo60+1) in UEFI mode
* ThinkPad X230 (syslinux 3:6.03~pre1+dfsg-1~bpo60+1):
  - boots fine in UEFI mode, but displays the syslinux menu very much
    translated to the top: one can see the two menu entries, but
    nothing else, so if one must edit the kernel command-line, they
    have to do it blindly
  - boots fine in Legacy BIOS mode, so at least we have no hardware
    support regression here
* boots on ThinkPenguin Royal (syslinux 6.02+dfsg-1 and
  6.03~pre1+dfsg-1)
* boots on MacBook Pro 13-inch Mid 2012 9,2 (EFI 2.9), and MacBook Pro
  13-inch Late 2011 8,1 (EFI 2.7), both with and without rEFInd *if*
  `menu background splash.png` is removed from `stdmenu.cfg`; adding
  `menu resolution 640 480` before `menu background` makes the menu
  display "correctly" (only taking 1/4 of the screen, but oh well),
  *but* the system does not boot; without rEFInd, one has to press Alt
  before powering the laptop up, and keep it pressed until a menu
  appears, and then choose the entry that's called *Boot EFI* (as
  every other entry) and looks like a USB stick.
* on MacBook Pro 13-inch Mid 2012 with rEFInd, one has to choose
  *Fallback boot loader from Tails* in rEFInd to boot, as the *Boot
  Linux from Tails* entry does nothing at all (syslinux 6.02+dfsg-1
  and 6.03~pre1+dfsg-1)
* The ThinkPenguin Royal does not detect the bootloader if installed
  as `EFI/Tails/syslinux.efi`; hence the use of the fallback bootloader
  path (`BOOT/bootx64.efi`), which should work on more hardware.
* tails-i386-feature_uefi-0.23-20131222T0855Z-8acf864.iso
  boots fine on a Apple MacBook Air 13" mid 2011 (MacBookAir4,2)
  once installed with Tails Installer
* MacBook Pro 15-inch Mid 2010 (6,2) boots fine with rEFInd and
  tails-i386-feature_uefi-0.23-20131222T0855Z-8acf864.iso, *if* `menu
  background splash.png` is removed from `stdmenu.cfg`; if one
  adds `menu resolution 640 480` before `menu background`, the system
  does not boot.
* Lenovo ThinkPad X130e:
  tails-i386-feature_uefi-0.23-20140104T0920Z-3305611.iso boots fine.
* Lenovo E325: tails-i386-feature_uefi-0.23-20140104T0920Z-3305611.iso
  boots fine.
* MacBook Air Original (1,1): one has to press Esc twice in rEFInd to
  have it see the USB stick; then, rEFInd apparently loads syslinux,
  that fails to display its menu, even after commenting out most
  menu-related setting that has to do with color or positioning.
  Finally, Tails does not boot.
* ASUSTeK COMPUTER INC. X55VD: boots fine with `menu background
  splash.png` removed (both with CSM enabled and disabled); only boots
  in CSM mode with `menu background splash.png` kept in place
* Boots fine on ThinkPad W520 (tails-i386-feature_uefi-1.0-20140324T1026Z-dd350d4.iso).
* Boots fine on Lenovo ThinkPad E320 (tails-i386-feature_uefi-1.1-20140407T1357Z-02a2adf)
* Boots fine on Macbook Pro 11,3 (15 Inch Retina-Late 2013)
* Boots fine on Late 2013 Macbook Pro 13" Retina
* Boots fine on Macbook Air 3,1 in UEFI mode
* Boots fine on HP/Compaq 6330s in UEFI mode
* ThinkCentre M82 boots fine with:
  - an alpha generation (isohybrid + dd) USB stick
  - a beta generation (prepared with Tails Installer) USB stick in
    both UEFI and "legacy" BIOS mode
* Boots fine on ASUS 701 (eeepc).
* Boots fine on Acer Aspire E1-531 (V2.09, EFI v2.31) in UEFI mode.
* Boots fine on MacBookPro8,1 (Early 2011, Model A1278).
* Boots fine on Gateway NE56R w/ Bios V2.13 in UEFI mode, with Secure
  Boot disabled. Doesn't boot (as expected) with Secure Boot enabled.
* Boots fine on Hewlett-Packard Presario CQ57
* Boots fine on Apple MacBook Air 3,2 A1369 EMC 2392, with rEFInd
  0.7.8 installed, when installed with isohybrid + dd.
* Boots fine on ASUS ux31a
  - in CSM mode, when installed with isohybrid + dd
  - in UEFI mode, when installed with Tails Installer
* Boots fine on Lenovo Thinkpad T400.
* Boots fine on Mac Mini 2.3 Ghz Intel Core i7 from DVD, and from USB
  stick created with Tails Installer.
* Boots fine on MacBookAir5,1 from DVD, and from USB stick created
  with Tails Installer on the same machine.
* Boots fine from DVD on VirtualBox 4.3.10-dfsg-1~bpo70+1 (as of commit e0a3c64
  in `feature/uefi`).
* Boots fine on Lenovo G700.
* Boots fine from DVD on Lenovo B570.
* Boots fine from DVD on Lenovo Z61t.
* Boots fine from DVD on HP Pavilion dm4-1150ca.
* Boots fine on Asus Z87 Pro motherboard (Tails 1.1~beta1) off a USB
  stick installed with Tails Installer.

# Tests with syslinux 3:6.03~pre18+dfsg-1~bpo70+1

* MacBookPro 13-inch Late 2011 8,1. All what follows is using a USB
  device installed with Tails Installer, using an experimental ISO
  (20140731) with syslinux 3:6.03~pre18+dfsg-1~bpo70+1. The same
  computer boots Tails 1.1 just fine.
  - boots just fine with the default configuration
  - uncommenting `menu background splash.png` in
    `EFI/BOOT/stdmenu.cfg` => stuck at the Mac boot menu
  - same as above, and add `MENU RESOLUTION 1024 768` to
    `EFI/BOOT/tails.cfg` => displayed *once* the syslinux boot menu
    with the expected background image, can edit the kernel cmdline,
    but does not boot (display stuck at the syslinux menu); and then
    I can't reproduce it, and it's stuck at the Mac boot menu, like
    when `MENU RESOLUTION 1024 768` wasn't here.
  - same as above, but with `MENU RESOLUTION 640 480`
    => stuck at the Mac boot menu
* MacBookPro9,2: with an experimental ISO built from
  c183ad91bce6c0fa4a95c387c8f5c8387acf9a0c, same results as with 1.1;
  and same as above MacBookPro 8,1 results wrt. menu config tweaks.
* TOSHIBA PORTEGE Z830: boots fine with `isohybrid --entry 4 --type
  0x1c` and a <1GB ISO.
* TOSHIBA PORTEGE Z930: boots fine from a stick installed with Tails
  Installer (from DVD), while it did not boot with Tails 1.1.
* ThinkPad X61, EeePC Seashell series, VirtualBox 4.3.14-dfsg-1 (MBR):
  status quo, works just as fine as before
* ASUSTeK UX31E: works fine, while it required manual selection in
  BIOS in Tails 1.1.
* Mid-2012 Mac Pro (6-core 3.33Ghz 32GB memory): boots fine from DVD
* Mid-2010 15" MacBook Pro (MacBookPro 6,2): boots fine from DVD
* Lenovo x61s: boots fine from manually installed USB stick
* Macbook pro early 2008 (4,1): boots fine from DVD.
* OVMF:
  - Boots fine. Fails to shutdown (hangs at "Starting new kernel").
  - with "menu background splash.png": boots fine. The syslinux menu is
    as beautiful as when booting in MBR mode.
  - with "MENU RESOLUTION 1024 768": boots fine. The menu is smaller.
  - with "menu background splash.png" and "MENU RESOLUTION 1024 768":
    boots fine. The menu is smaller and the background gets tiled
    (repeated as 2x2 tiles) which is ugly.
* MacBookPro 2.6GHZ Mid 2012 15" (A1286 / MD104LL), Tails 1.2:
  - DVD: boots fine
  - manual install method for mac: boots fine
  - Tails Installer: doesn't boot
