[[!meta title="Team Manager for sponsor deliverables"]]

As the manager for a team that works on a deliverable we've promised
to a sponsor, you must:

Before starting to work on a deliverable
========================================

- Ask any information needed to organize and accomplish the deliverable
  to the Fundraising Team (budgets, deadlines, milestones…)

- Ensure that the workers on your team are aware of [[what they are
  responsible for|sponsor_deliverables/worker]] in terms of
  self-management as well as deadlines…

While working on a deliverable
==============================

- Ensure that the workers on your team actually do the work on time.
  Help them as needed in whatever way you see fit, e.g. create tickets,
  organize meetings, organize feedback sessions.

- Regularly check the status of work vs. deadlines.

  Try to foresee upcoming problems. If you notice or foresee any
  problem, ensure the team is aware of the problem, and help them plan
  how to solve it (e.g. reassign work to someone else, reprioritize
  issues, verify if issues are still part of the deliverable, adjust the
  timeline and tell the sponsor about it as soon as possible).

  It may happen that promised work really cannot fit within an allocated
  budget. In that case, refer to the Handbook → section Timesheets and
  budget management.

- Keep track of the total amount of (time) budget spent so far.

  Regularly report to the accounting team that takes care of invoicing
  about accomplished milestones and validate accomplished tasks of
  workers.

- Report to the sponsor via the accounting team about accomplished
  milestones as often and as detailed as specified in grant agreements.

After working on a deliverable
==============================

- Report on status of work to the rest of the project as you see fit
  (e.g. mailing lists, monthly reports…)

- Do aftercare: ask workers what went well and what did not, and take
  notes on how to improve next time.

- Send a list of leftover tasks, that were deemed out of scope or
  exceeded budget, to the "UX and technical debt" plate of the
  relevant core team. That team will triage such issues and prioritize
  them wrt. the many other issues we would like to work on.
