[[!meta title="Worker for sponsor deliverables"]]

As a worker paid to do work on a deliverable we've promised to
a sponsor, you must:

- Ask any information you lack to your
  [[sponsor_deliverables/team_manager]].

- Track which ticket corresponds to which deliverable.

  Ensure each of your deliverables has a ticket in Redmine with the
  correct _Deliverable for_ value.

- Schedule your work in advance to meet deadlines:

  - Plan for surprises such as tasks that are unexpectedly harder
    than planned.
  - Use the _Target version_ field in Redmine to track your own plans
    and timing goals. Keep this information up-to-date at all times.

- Check how good you're doing wrt. their deliverables and deadlines.
  Talk to your [[sponsor_deliverables/team_manager]] as soon as you
  can if any problem arises.

- Report your progress on deliverables when requested.

  Summarize the tickets and achievements of each deliverables since
  the last report. This information will then be transmitted to the
  Accounting Team for invoicing. Clarify the matching between tickets
  and deliverables; for example, you can report:

   - "B.3.7 completed: #nnnn, #mmmm, etc.": all these tickets must
     have the _Resolved_ or _Fix committed_ status in Redmine.
   - "C.4.2 (#nnnn, #mmmm) in progress but not completed because of
     $reasons".

- When reporting, if you want to adjust the way the money for a given
  task is split within your team, then specify it. For example if you
  delegated one of your task to someone else and want to give them your
  money, then specify this. If you want to split your money with
  someone else, then specify this as well. Remember that we are taking
  as a reference for payment the time estimate that we agreed upon
  while preparing the grant and won't pay more.
