[[!meta title="Download and verify using OpenPGP"]]

These instructions are for people who are already familiar with basic
usage of OpenPGP and have *GPG* installed but might need guidance on
performing the verification.

1. Download the latest [Tails ISO image](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/latest.iso)
   (<span class="remove-extra-space">[[!inline pages="inc/stable_i386_iso_size" raw="yes"]]</span>).

1. Download the [OpenPGP signature](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/latest.iso.sig)
   of the latest Tails ISO image and save it to the same folder where
   you saved the ISO image.

1. If you are doing the verification for the first time, download the
   [[Tails signing key|tails-signing.key]] and import it in your keyring.
   If you are working from Tails, the signing key is already included.

   All our ISO images are signed with the same signing key, so you only
   have to import it once. Still, you have to verify the ISO image every
   time you download a new one.

<div class="caution">

<p>Those techniques rely on standard HTTPS and <span
class="definition">[[!wikipedia Certificate_authority desc="certificate
authorities"]]</span> to make you trust the content of this website.
But, [[as explained on our warning
page|doc/about/warning#man-in-the-middle]], you
could still be victim of a man-in-the-middle attack while using HTTPS.
On this website as much as on any other of the Internet.</p>

<p>As a consequence, <strong>they don't provide you with a
strong way of checking the ISO image <span
class="definition">[[!wikipedia Authentication
desc="authenticity"]]</span> and making sure you downloaded a genuine
Tails.</strong> In a dedicated section, we will propose you some more advanced
techniques to <a href="#authenticity-check">check the authenticity of
the ISO image</a>.</p>

</div>

<h2>In Tails</h2>

<p>Browse your files to select the Tails ISO image you want to verify.
Then, the verification will start. It can take several minutes:</p>

<p>[[!img verifying.png alt="Verifying" link="no"]]</p>

<p><strong>If the ISO image is correct</strong> you will get a
notification telling you that the signature is good:</p>

<p>[[!img good_signature.png alt="Goog Signature" link="no"]]</p>

<p><strong>If the ISO image is not correct</strong> you will get a
notification telling you that the signature is bad:</p>

<p>[[!img bad_signature.png alt="Bad Signature: Bad or forged signature."
link="no"]]</p>

<h2>Using Linux with the command line</h2>

<p>Then, <strong>start the cryptographic verification</strong>, it can take several
minutes:</p>

<p class="pre">
cd [the ISO image directory]<br />
[[!inline pages="inc/stable_i386_gpg_verify" raw="yes"]]
</p>

<p><strong>If the ISO image is correct</strong> the output will tell you
that the signature is good:</p>

<pre>
gpg: Signature made Sun 08 Feb 2015 08:17:03 PM UTC
gpg:                using RSA key 0x98FEC6BC752A3DB6
gpg: Good signature from "Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) &lt;tails@boum.org&gt;" [unknown]
Primary key fingerprint: A490 D0F4 D311 A415 3E2B  B7CA DBB8 02B2 58AC D84F
     Subkey fingerprint: BA2C 222F 44AC 00ED 9899  3893 98FE C6BC 752A 3DB6
</pre>

<p>or:</p>

<pre>
gpg: Signature made Sun 08 Feb 2015 08:17:03 PM UTC
gpg:                using RSA key 0x3C83DCB52F699C56
gpg: Good signature from "Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) &lt;tails@boum.org&gt;" [unknown]
Primary key fingerprint: A490 D0F4 D311 A415 3E2B  B7CA DBB8 02B2 58AC D84F
     Subkey fingerprint: A509 1F72 C746 BA6B 163D  1C18 3C83 DCB5 2F69 9C56
</pre>

<p>If you see the following warning:</p>

<pre>
gpg: WARNING: This key is not certified with a trusted signature!
gpg:          There is no indication that the signature belongs to the owner.
Primary key fingerprint: A490 D0F4 D311 A415 3E2B  B7CA DBB8 02B2 58AC D84F
</pre>

<p>Then the ISO image is still correct, and valid according to the Tails signing
key that you downloaded. This warning is related to the trust that you put in
the Tails signing key. See, [[Trusting Tails signing
key|doc/get/trusting_tails_signing_key]]. To remove this warning you would have
to personally <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia Keysigning
desc="sign"]]</span> the Tails signing key with your own key.</p>

<p><strong>If the ISO image is not correct</strong> the output will tell
you that the signature is bad:</p>

<pre>
gpg: Signature made Sat 30 Apr 2015 10:53:23 AM CEST
gpg:                using RSA key 0xDBB802B258ACD84F
gpg: BAD signature from "Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) &lt;tails@boum.org&gt;"
</pre>

<h2>In Windows</h2>

<p>[[Consult the Gpg4win documentation to check the
signature|http://www.gpg4win.org/doc/en/gpg4win-compendium_24.html#id4]]</p>

<p>If you see the following warning:</p>

<a id="warning"></a>

<pre>
Not enough information to check the signature validity.
Signed on ... by tails@boum.org (Key ID: 0x58ACD84F
The validity of the signature cannot be verified.
</pre>

<p>Then the ISO image is still correct, and valid according to the Tails signing
key that you downloaded. This warning is related to the trust that you put in
the Tails signing key. See, [[Trusting Tails signing
key|doc/get/trusting_tails_signing_key]]. To remove this warning you would have
to personally <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia Keysigning
desc="sign"]]</span> the Tails signing key with your own key.</p>

<h2>In Mac OS X</h2>

<p>You can do the verification using <span class="application">Finder</span>:</p>

<li><p>Right-click on the ISO image and choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Services</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">OpenPGP: Verify Signature of File</span></span>.</p></li>

</ol>

# Trusting Tails signing key

We will present you three techniques from the easiest to the safest. Again,
none of them is a perfect and magic solution. Feel free to explore them
according to your possibilities and technical skills.

Note that since all Tails releases are signed with the same key, you will not
have to verify the key every time and the trust you might progressively build in
it will be built once and for all. Still, you will have to check the ISO image
every time you download a new one!

# Correlates several downloads of Tails signing key

A simple technique to increase the trust you can put in Tails signing key would
be to download it several times, from several locations, several computers,
possibly several countries, etc.

For example you could save them every time with a different name in the same
directory on a USB stick. Then run the following command from a terminal to
check whether all the keys are identical:

    cd [your download directory]
    diff -qs --from-file tails-signing*.key

This command would output something like this:

    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-laptop.key are identical
    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-library.key are identical
    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-seattle.key are identical

You would then need to check that every line reports identical key files.

If at least a key differs from the rest, the command would output accordingly:

    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-laptop.key are identical
    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-library.key are identical
    Files tails-signing-desktop.key and tails-signing-seattle.key differ

You could also use this technique to compare keys downloaded by your friends or
other people you trust.

# Using the OpenPGP Web of Trust

If you want to be extra cautious and really authenticate Tails signing key in a
stronger way than what standard HTTPS offers you, you will need to use the
OpenPGP Web of Trust.

One of the inherent problems of standard HTTPS is that the trust we usually put
on a website is defined by certificate authorities: a hierarchical and closed
set of companies and governmental institutions approved by web browser vendors.
This model of trust has long been criticized and proved several times to be
vulnerable to attacks [[as explained on our warning
page|about/warning#man-in-the-middle]].

We believe instead that users should be given the final say when trusting a
website, and that designation of trust should be done on the basis of human
interaction.

The OpenPGP [[!wikipedia Web_of_Trust desc="Web of Trust"]] is a decentralized
trust model based on OpenPGP keys. Let's see that with an example.

*You're a friend of Alice and really trust her way of managing OpenPGP keys.
You're trusting Alice's key.*

*Furthermore, Alice met Bob, a Tails developer, in a conference, and signed
Bob's key. Alice is trusting Bob's key.*

*Bob is a Tails developer who directly owns the Tails signing key. Bob fully
trusts Tails signing key.*

This scenario creates a trust path from you to Tails signing key that could
allow you to trust it without having to depend on certificate authorities.

This trust model is not perfect either and requires both caution and intelligent
supervision by users. The technical details of creating, managing and trusting
OpenPGP keys is outside of the scope of this document.

We also acknowledge that not everybody might be able to create good trust path
to Tails signing key since it based on a network of direct human relationships
and the knowledge of quite complex tools such as OpenPGP.

<a id="debian">

# Check Tails signing key against the Debian keyring

Following the previous scenario, when Alice met Bob, a Tails developer, she
could have made a new signature on Tails signing key with her own key to certify this
trust relationship and make it public. Tails signing key would now come along
with a signature made by Alice.

Tails signing key is actually already signed by the keys of several official
developers of Debian, the operating system on which Tails is based. Debian makes
an extensive use of OpenPGP and you can download the keys of all Debian
developers by installing the <code>debian-keyring</code> package. You can then
verify the signatures those developers made with their own key on Tails signing
key.

To download the Debian keyring you can do:

    sudo apt-get install debian-keyring

To get a list of the signatures made by other people on Tails signing key you
can do:

    gpg --keyid-format long --list-sigs A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

You will get something like this:

    pub   4096R/DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
          Key fingerprint = A490 D0F4 D311 A415 3E2B  B7CA DBB8 02B2 58AC D84F
    uid               [ unknown] Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig 3        DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig          1202821CBE2CD9C1 2015-01-19  Tails developers (signing key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig          BACE15D2A57498FF 2015-01-19  [User ID not found]
    sig          9C31503C6D866396 2015-02-03  [User ID not found]
    sig          BB3A68018649AA06 2015-02-04  [User ID not found]
    sig          091AB856069AAA1C 2015-02-05  [User ID not found]
    sub   4096R/98FEC6BC752A3DB6 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
    sig          DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sub   4096R/3C83DCB52F699C56 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
    sig          DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>

The lines ending with '[User ID not found]' are signatures made by keys you
still don't have in your keyring. You could try to search for them in the Debian
keyring by their key ID: the 16 digit code between the 'sig' tag and the date.
You could for example do:

    gpg --keyring=/usr/share/keyrings/debian-keyring.gpg --list-key 9C31503C6D866396

If this signature corresponds to a key in the Debian keyring you will get
something like this:

    pub   4096R/0x9C31503C6D866396 2010-09-27
          Key fingerprint = 4900 707D DC5C 07F2 DECB  0283 9C31 503C 6D86 6396
    uid                 [ unknown] Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@upsilon.cc>
    uid                 [ unknown] Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@debian.org>
    uid                 [ unknown] Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@cs.unibo.it>
    uid                 [ unknown] Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@pps.jussieu.fr>
    uid                 [ unknown] Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr>
    sub   4096R/0x7DFA4FED02D0E74C 2010-09-27

You can then import it in your own keyring by doing:

    gpg --keyring=/usr/share/keyrings/debian-keyring.gpg --export 9C31503C6D866396 | gpg --import

Now you can try to verify the signature made by this new key on Tails signing
key by doing:

    gpg --keyid-format long --check-sigs A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

On the output, the status of the verification is indicated by a flag directly
following the "sig" tag. A "!" indicates that the signature has been
successfully verified, a  "-" denotes a bad signature and a "%" is used if an
error occurred while checking the signature (e.g. a non supported algorithm).
For example, in the following output the signature of Stefano Zacchiroli on
Tails signing key has been successfully verified:

    pub   4096R/DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
          Key fingerprint = A490 D0F4 D311 A415 3E2B  B7CA DBB8 02B2 58AC D84F
    uid               [ unknown] Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig!3        DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig!         1202821CBE2CD9C1 2015-01-19  Tails developers (signing key) <tails@boum.org>
    sig!         9C31503C6D866396 2015-02-03  Stefano Zacchiroli <zack@upsilon.cc>
    sub   4096R/98FEC6BC752A3DB6 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
    sig!         DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>
    sub   4096R/3C83DCB52F699C56 2015-01-18 [expires: 2016-01-11]
    sig!         DBB802B258ACD84F 2015-01-18  Tails developers (offline long-term identity key) <tails@boum.org>

    3 signatures not checked due to missing keys

# Get into the Web of Trust!

Since the Web of Trust is actually based on human relationships and real-life
interactions the best would be to start establishing contacts with people
knowledgeable about OpenPGP, start using it yourself and build trust
relationships in order to find your own trust path to Tails signing key.

You could start by contacting a local [[!wikipedia Linux_User_Group desc="%s"]]
or other Tails enthusiasts near you and exchange about their OpenPGP
practices.

# Further reading on OpenPGP

- [[!wikipedia GnuPG desc="Wikipedia: %s"]], a free OpenPGP software
- [[Apache: How To OpenPGP|http://www.apache.org/dev/openpgp.html]]
- [[Debian: Keysigning|http://www.debian.org/events/keysigning]], a
  tutorial on signing keys of other people
- [[rubin.ch: Explanation of the web of trust of PGP|http://www.rubin.ch/pgp/weboftrust.en.html]]
- [[Gpg4win: Certificate
  inspection|http://www.gpg4win.org/doc/en/gpg4win-compendium_16.html]],
  instructions to manage key trust with Gpg4win
- <!-- l10n placeholder for language-specific link -->
