[[!meta title="March 2014 online meeting"]]

6245: MD5 Reborned Hasher is incompatible with Firefox 20
---------------------------------------------------------

<https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/6245>

This ticket should be in Wait state instead of Discuss state. Another ticket has
been created as parent of this one:

  - [[!tails_ticket 6851]]: Fix ISO verification using Firefox
    - [[!tails_ticket 6245]]: MD5 Reborned Hasher is incompatible with Firefox 20
    - [[!tails_ticket 6664]]: Try to verify an ISO image using DownThemAll

6679: Do not auto-connect to the #tor IRC channel
-------------------------------------------------

<https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/6679>

This ticket has been renamed "Remove the preconfigured #tor IRC channel": we
don't auto-join the #tor channel, so the only way to have less people from Tails
connect to it is to remove it all the way.

We agree on removing the #tor channel. DrWhax proposed to write a patch for both
[[!tails_ticket 6679]] and [[!tails_ticket 6807]].

Volunteers to handle broken windows this month?
-----------------------------------------------

- [[!tails_ticket 6460]]: Fix memory wipe with recent kernel Tails] will go away
  with 0.23.
- [[!tails_ticket 5731]]: test suite: get rid of the JRuby mess - Tails] is
  almost done, only the [[!tails_ticket 6400]] discussion left.
- [[!tails_ticket 6314]]: Stop using a custom libvirt package to run the test
  suite - Tails] is also fixed.
- [[!tails_ticket 5681]]: Offer to provide the source of packages included in
  Tails upon request - Tails] was done and is a subtask of a broken window.
- [[!tails_ticket 6315]]: Make it possible to deploy and run our test suite -
  Tails] will go away once [[!tails_ticket 6400]] is resolved.

So we're still working toward resolution of a bunch of broken windows but nobody
volunteered explicitly for March.

Monthly low-hanging fruits meeting?
-----------------------------------

None
