[[!meta title="December 2014 meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# [[!tails_ticket 5684 desc="Screen Locker"]]

We could reuse the "admin password" (that is, really, user password +
sudo), but we would need to convey the info that one needs to set one in
order to be able to lock the screen. This seems complicated and implies
that a user has to set the admin password at boot time. A second
password makes sense.

A suggestion was made to prompt the user for a password when she
activates the screen locker for the first time, so she can set a new
password. For persistence users, this password could maybe be made
persistent.

A warning could and should equally displayed at that first moment of
activating the screen locker.

How can we achieve this, ideas:

1. use a different PAM config for the screensaver
2. turn the admin password into the root one, and use the user
   password's as the locker's one.

intrigeri can give a hand on the PAM front. For the JS side of things,
ask alan and anonym.

Next steps:

- investigate technical solutions to do that ([[!tails_ticket 8383]])
- investigate how other distros do that ([[!tails_ticket 8384]])
- investigate if other distros are interested in our solution (if so,
  make it into a deb package?) ([[!tails_ticket 8385]])

# Random vs. shared username and hostname

Starting points:

* [[!tails_ticket 7061]]
* [[!tails_ticket 5655]]
* <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2014-August/006736.html>

After discussing circuit isolation and fingerprinting through a possible
list of hostnames (as first suggested Griffin) or random hostnames, we
came again to the conclusion that anything but the single and shared
username+hostname seems actively harmful for people who do mix
activities and identities in a single Tails session.

We agree that for now we want to keep one common user/hostname as this
seems to provide most anonymity.
It would provide a bigger anonymity set to share this name with other
distros, this is reconfirmed.
Most would then prefer "debian" as a hostname.

Users still need to be aware that they should not mix identities.
As a side note, when making decisions, we don't focus on usecases that
mix identities, but still we take it into account.

# [[!tails_ticket 7419 desc="Rename Tor Browser in camouflage mode?"]]

Yes, this seems good to have, but has low priority.
Would be good entry point for someone who wants to start hacking Tails.
intrigeri volunteered to turn this into an Easy ticket.

# [[!tails_ticket 8125 desc="Host the Tor Browser tarballs we need ourselves"]]

Needs to be further discussed by those most involved in the issue.
Skipping discussion.

# [[!tails_ticket 8174 desc="Build Tor with seccomp"]]

Yes, this should happen and has been answerered on the ticket itself.
Skipping discussion.

# [[!tails_ticket 8236 desc="Greeter revamp: Decide between 'play' and 'computer' logo for Start button"]]

* play: [[blueprint/greeter_revamp_UI/greeter-1st-screen-persistence.png]]
* computer: [[blueprint/greeter_revamp_UI/greeter-guided-context.png]]

We concluded unanimously that the "Play" icon is more appropriate as it
implies the idea of starting something whereas the computer implies the
idea of modifying settings. Furthermore, the important thing is that the
screen has a (translatable) string "Start" or similar, which explains
the icon further to the user.
