[[!tails_ticket 6972 desc="Create a 'Sponsors' page"]]
======================================================

  - We will add a contact info for sponsors on the "Donate" page:
    [[!tails_ticket 7734]].
  - Create a new page targeted at potential sponsors:
    - Start with listing generic information that doesn't rely on our roadmap.
    - Maybe include hints to our roadmap and priorities but then it has to be
      maintained.
    - DrWhax will give it a try.
  - We didn't decide on whether listing past sponsors on that page.

Press enquiries
===============

  - We have two press enquires in our queue:
    - one from businessinsider.com and
    - one from "Il Manifesto"
  - sycamoreone will try to submit a draft for "Il Manifesto": [[!tails_ticket
    7738]].

[[!tails_ticket 7521 desc="Export iCal calendar from ikiwiki"]]
===============================================================

  - Do this using ikiwiki would imply working on ikiwiki plugins.
  - Nobody volunteered to do that.
  - We will explore the calendar possibilities of Redmine first.
  - Redmine has a calendar module:
    <http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/RedmineCalendar>
  - But custom query can be saved on the calendar view, apparently.
  - There is also a iCal export plugin:
    <http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/PluginICalendarExport>
  - All this needs more research: [[!tails_ticket 7735]].

[[!tails_ticket 7638 desc="Decide something about the proposed plan regarding TrueCrypt"]]
==========================================================================================

  - The current proposal is:
    - Tails 1.2 (October 2014): update the wrapper to point to alternatives,
      ship cryptsetup 1.6, have documentation to open TC volumes with
      cryptsetup.
    - Tails 1.3 (January 2015): drop TC entirely.
  - People are free to work on that earlier if they want.
  - People love the plausible deniability and will complain a lot if we remove
    TC before the persistence is by default, but we'll have to live with it.
  - intrigeri and sajolida will work together on updating the documentation.

[[!tails_ticket 7697 desc="Create list and repo for tails-fundraising"]]
========================================================================

  - A few people feel the need to have tools to coordinate fundraising efforts.
  - On the other hand, the accounting team is afraid about how to split the
    communication between tails-accounting@ and tails-fundraising@, especially
    regarding splitting the grant proposal, the budget, the communication with
    the funder, etc.
  - We decided to create a new Schleuder list tails-fundraising@boum.org, and a
    git-remote-gcrypt repository.
  - It will include all the information that is meant to be known by the funder:
    grant information, application text, budget, etc. but all the rest would not
    be there.
  - Texts from past applications will be imported in that repository.
  - MoC and DrWhax who are already working on this will nominate other candidate
    members to tails@boum.org.
  - This list tails-fundraising@boum.org will be the contact for sponsors on the
    Donate page: [[!tails_ticket 7734]].

[[!tails_ticket 7380 desc="Randomise MAC address when scanning for Wi-Fi networks even when MAC spoofing is disabled"]]
=======================================================================================================================

  - Three people (sajolida, jvoisin, and intrigeri) were convinced by anonym's
    [comment #2](https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7380#note-2) and agreed
    with rejecting.
  - Furthermore as anonym said, we might not want to change how Tails behaves
    when opting-out of MAC spoofing, so it would turn the MAC option into a
    tri-state, which makes UI complicated.
