[[!meta title="November 2014 meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# [[!tails_ticket 7976 desc="Disable LAN access in Tor Browser, delegate to Unsafe Browser?"]]

We agreed on moving LAN browsing from outside Tor Browser. Now we need
to decide whether we want it to be included in the Unsafe Browser or
have a dedicated browser. We considered one of the following options:

  - Unsafe Browser including LAN
  - Unsafe Browser and separate LAN Browser

That's a UX decision basically, so sajolida will raise the issue on
tails-ux@boum.org.

The proposed solution will help deciding something with respect to
[[!tails_ticket 7774]] as well. Either maybe "Non-anonymous Browser" if
the two features are combined in one browser, or "Captive Portal
Browser" and "LAN Browser" if the two browsers are separate. But those
names would have to be refined.

# Roadmap amendments proposal

<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2014-August/006573.html>
<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2014-August/006693.html>
<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2014-August/006739.html>

We added those tickets to our roadmap:

  - [[!tails_ticket 6092]] → 2.0
  - [[!tails_ticket 5472]] → 2.0
  - [[!tails_ticket 7042]] → 2.0
  - [[!tails_ticket 6918]] → 3.0
  - [[!tails_ticket 7724]] → 3.0
  - [[!tails_ticket 6185]] → 2.0

# [[!tails_ticket 6051 desc="Migrate master Git repository to immerda"]]

The only real advantage of moving our master Git repository to immerda
would be to have more control on who has commit permissions. But we do
that only on very rare occasions. We couldn't find any good reason to do
this work so we rejected this ticket.

# [[!tails_ticket 7778 desc="Have an easy way to use or discover Tails OpenPGP Applet from Iceweasel"]]

We considered this as a low priority but interesting UX issue. People
willing to design and propose a new UI for that should make sure that
they understand the security implications as well as the amount of
additional technical work of their solution.

# [[!tails_ticket 7963 desc="Replace default desktop background with another"]]

We agreed on trying to reduce the brightness and saturation of the
current background to be less hurting to the eyes. While keeping the
same blue color.

# [[!tails_ticket 7376 desc="Use more discreet Pidgin tray icons in Windows camouflage mode"]] and [[!tails_ticket 7399 desc="Remove Pidgin systray icon in Windows 8 camouflage"]]

We considered those as no real issues. The camouflage mode tries to
avoid being spotted as Tails by someone passing by but it can't be a
100% perfect imitation of Windows. So we decided to reject both tickets.
