[[!meta title="February 2014 online meeting"]]

Agenda
======

* Investigate dropping the Cookie Monster browser extension
  ([[!tails_ticket 6595]])
* Persistent folder should not be writable with read-only persistence
  ([[!tails_ticket 6585]])
* Volunteers to handle broken windows this month
* Planning a monthly low-hanging fruits or review'n'merge meeting

Investigate dropping the Cookie Monster browser extension
---------------------------------------------------------

See [[!tails_ticket 6595]].

Decision: intrigeri pinged the thread on -dev, as we lack inputs of use cases
for this discussion.

Persistent folder should not be writable with read-only persistence
-------------------------------------------------------------------

See [[!tails_ticket 6585]].

Decision: add a note on the ticket, saying we agreed here that this doesn't look
like a bug. Then, unless the discussion is (re)started on tails-dev, we'll close
the ticket after next month's meeting

Create a logo for Tails
-----------------------

See [[!tails_ticket 5797]].

BitingBird updated the ticket with the clarification that we discussed:

* The logo has to be published under a free licence, compatible with GPL3+
* Proportions: ratio between 1:1 and 3:1
* If writing, then: Tails (uppercase first letter, the rest in lowercase)
* Colors: until now we stole the purple+green from Tor, but it doesn't have to
* rather not re-use tor/debian images, but evoking ok (tor colors...)
* Visual + idea: secrecy / privacy / anonymity / mystery ; simplicity: tails is
* ready-to-use
* little bit serious, but not sad
* The logo should make nice stickers / t-shirts, that people want to have on
  their computers or themselves
* We like the idea of the tail, the cat or the mask that was used by Incognito
  in the past. Other ideas that meet the requirements are welcome too.

Volunteers to handle broken windows this month
----------------------------------------------

### Introduction
 
Our "broken windows" (https://tails.boum.org/contribute/roadmap/#Broken%20window),
are tasks or issues that, ideally,
should have been resolved a while ago, and seeing them still causing
problems is demotivating.

We try to spend a week focusing on broken windows each month.
Recently, most core contributors have been focusing on broken windows
all the time, so we skipped them in practice.

However, if new contributors want to play with us, it may make sense
to revive these specific times.

### Decisions

Sajolida will send an email to Kevin about Tails clock.


Monthly low-hanging fruits meeting
----------------------------------

### Introduction

Low-hanging fruits meeting: spend a while together on many small tasks
that take less than 2 hours each, and are waiting in our TODO list for
too long.

During these meetings, we exceptionally allow ourselves to do the
review & merge process on IRC instead of the usual email -based
workflow, so this should all go pretty smoothly. Then, we report back
on tails-dev.

We also use these meetings to review stuff that's waiting in
the queue.

### Decisions

Next LHF session will take place on the 24th february, from 10AM to 2PM CET.
It will be more oriented on hard testing of new features, as the freeze for 0.23
will be close, and there will be big new ones.
