[[!meta title="January 2014 online meeting"]]

Agenda
======

1. User support on IM
  [[!tails_ticket 5591]]
2. Broken windows week this month?
3. Monthly low-hanging fruits or review'n'merge meeting?

User support on IM
------------------

### Introduction

[[!tails_ticket 5591]]

### Decision

We decided to close that ticket, as no one feels this should be done as the
front desk duty. We'd rather encourage people do user support on #tails.

Volunteers to handle broken windows this month?
-----------------------------------------------

### Introduction
 
Our "broken windows" (https://tails.boum.org/contribute/roadmap/#Broken%20window),
are tasks or issues that, ideally,

Our "broken windows" ([[!tails_roadmap]]) are tasks or issues that, ideally,
should have been resolved a while ago, and seeing them still causing
problems is demotivating.

We try to spend a week focusing on broken windows each month.
Recently, most core contributors have been focusing on broken windows
all the time, so we skipped them in practice.

However, if new contributors want to play with us, it may make sense
to revive these specific times.

### Decisions

intrigeri will try again to have TailsClock move forward, that will kill #5306
as a side effect.

Monthly low-hanging fruits meeting?
-----------------------------------

### Introduction

Low-hanging fruits meeting: spend a while together on many small tasks
that take less than 2 hours each, and are waiting in our TODO list for
too long.

During these meetings, we exceptionally allow ourselves to do the
review & merge process on IRC instead of the usual email -based
workflow, so this should all go pretty smoothly. Then, we report back
on tails-dev.

We also use these meetings to review stuff that's waiting in
the queue.

### Decisions

We'll have one low-hanging fruits meeting in February:

- Saturday 2014-02-08 9am to 1pm UTC / 10am to 2pm CET
