[[!meta title="October 2015 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month

  - We closed [[!tails_ticket 7546 desc="Add MAC spoofing to the manual test suite"]].
  - _adamb will give a try at [[!tails_ticket 8086 desc="Test our build system with Vagrant 1.6.x"]]

# Important tickets flagged for next release but without assignee

We didn't spot any ticket that needed to be reassigned.

# Availability for LHF

jvoisin, and u should be there.

# Availability for the month

  - u will work on Tails Installer, Icedove, TorBirdy, the mirror
    infrastructure, and importing the Farsi translations.
  - sajolida will work on the Installation Assistant, prepare the call for
    donation of the end of the year, and other fundraising.
  - muri will be translating and maybe do one or two small easy tasks.

# [[!tails_ticket 10257 desc="Discuss & adopt a strategy to merge commits from Weblate"]]

We realized that this was highly dependent on the way we could implement a
review process inside Weblate which was something in the original list of
requirements ("MUST: provide user roles (admin, reviewer, translator"). We
created a ticket to investigate this [[!tails_ticket 10331 desc="#10331"]].

# [[!tails_ticket 10179 desc="Document mentors for new contributors"]]

We agreed on creating a dedicated page for that and linking it close to the
[[Easy tasks|contribute/starter_tasks]], probably as a new H3 headers under "Tools
for contributors".

# [[!tails_ticket 10024 desc="Document issues behind having Tails derivatives"]]

We reviewed the draft by sajolida. Other examples were mentioned such as
supporting other cryptcurrencies or different pluggable transports.
