[[!meta title="September 2015 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month

- People have not much time to work on this.
- Anonym will try to finish [[!tails_ticket 6302]] this month which
  invalidates one of them ([[!tails_ticket 7546]]).

# Important tickets flagged for next release but without assignee

- [[!tails_ticket 10013]] will be done by anonym.
- [[!tails_ticket 10016]] will also be done by anonym, as part of his RM
  shift.
- [[!tails_ticket 9538]] will be handled by wilbns, who will email
  our fundraising ML. We won't be surprised if sajolida jump in too.

# Availability for LHF

Around 4 people (emmapeel, MoC, wilbns and bertagaz) will be around
for Sep 12th so it is confirmed.

# Availability for the month

Most people will be available, with different timelines (KyTV mainly not
durng the day for the next two weeks, anonym on weekdays only).

# [[!tails_ticket 9818 desc="Greeter option to enable webcam"]]

This feature isn't worth working on it and bloating the greeter with yet
another option when a simple duck tape can protect the user against
webcam spying. After all, Torproject is distributing nice stickers for
that. Not to mention that most people will certainly forget to activate
this option when needed. So we chose to reject this ticket.

# [[!tails_ticket 9934 desc="Evaluate scantailor to be shipped within Tails"]] 

We see no good reasons to add such a badly maintained software in Tails,
when users can use the addtional software feature which is just meant
for that. So we chose to reject it.

# [[!tails_ticket 8225 desc="please install mixmaster (or teach us how)"]]

This one was a tougher discussion. For most of us the use cases weren't
that clear, but it was still thought to be insteresting if for example
one have her own trusted email infrastructure, and would like to send
some emails without revealing it.
Some raised concerns about the state of the mixmaster network. Questions
about that will be asked by DrWhax at the next Tor dev meeting.
It was raised that Tails claims to be feature complete with Incognito,
which was shipped with mixmaster and a preconfigured account to use it
in Thunderbird. It doesn't seem that complicated to do, as there are
simple wrappers that turn mixmaster into a local SMTP server. Jake
popped up in the discussion and gave its support to this option ("every
anonymity tool that people use in reality, which includes
mixmaster/mixminion, would be good to include"), as well as a quick try.
We were also pointed to
[nymphemeral](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/nymphemeral).
But that's still one more feature that would have to be worked on and
maintained over time. We're not sure to have the energy for that.
So the decision was to put this ticket in low priority and call for
patches to either include it in Tails, or document on the website how to
deploy it.
