[[!meta title="April 2015 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month

KillYourTV might be able to test [[!tails_ticket 5306]], if his other
commitments for the next release don't eat all his time.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

Anonym is planning to take [[!tails_ticket 9072]].
Bertagaz is interested to give a try to fix [[!tails_ticket 9000]] if time
permits.
[[!tails_ticket 8243]] probably won't be fixed for 1.4, but some discussions
are kinda blocking it (e.g "keeping up with pluggable transports by using TBB's
Tor and tor-launcher"). This was added to the next summit agenda.

# Availability and plans for monthly low-hanging fruits meeting

Not much availability, but KillYourTV intend to attend.

# [[!tails_ticket 5613 desc="Document time sync failure"]]

Given our plans wrt. time syncing are changing (e.g. Intrigeri has a proposal
in mind that makes this moot), it's not worth investing time in documenting
that *now*. But if we're still in the same position in 6-8 months, we should
probably reconsider.

Also, this ticket is blocking [[!tails_ticket 5459]], and both of this tickets
are blocked by [[!tails_ticket 5424]]

# [[!tails_ticket 9174 desc="Migrate our blueprints to blueprints.tails.boum.org"]]

Discussions have started on tails-dev@ ("Underlay for UX or blueprints")
whether to move the blueprints on "https://blueprints.tails.boum.org".

There's not much downside people can see to this move (and not much people
participating/reading the thread it seems), so Intrigeri and Sajolida who are
part of the discussion can take any decisions they feel necessary on this.

# [[!tails_ticket 9047 desc="Tails trademark?"]]

It seems one can claim a unregistered trademark without doing any bureaucracy,
*just* by adding it to your website somewhere.

We have not much clues about the advantages of this, so the next steps would be
to investigate more concretly what are the advantages of an unregistered
trademark and what are the corresponding use case, as well as investigate what
would be the visual impact of such TM craps on our website.

