[[!meta title="July 2015 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month

Nobody has spare bandwidth. If something happens in this area,
it'll be a good surprise.

# Availability and plans for monthly low-hanging fruits meeting

No one attending this meeting promised anything about the next LHF
session.

# [[!tails_ticket 9530 desc="Consider using hkp://ha.pool.sks-keyservers.net in non-hkps-enabled software"]]

Those of us who had an opinion on this matter felt we lacked
information to make a decision => we decided that someone should try
using that "HA" pool in the automated test suite after reverting
[[!tails_ticket 9518]], and measure if it improves things compared to the regular hkps
pool. That's low priority, though.

# [[!tails_ticket 9529 desc="Ping PayPal donors regularly?"]]

Some of us found it important to have an opt-out mechanism.
u. volunteered to maintain the opt-out information, so next steps are:

1. decide if/how MoC can have access to these opt-out info
2. if "we" find a way to do that, then implement it; otherwise, get
   back to "do we really need opt-out"?

... and intrigeri (with his -accounting@ hat on) is OK with taking the
opt-out info into account when "spamming" the rest of the donors.

Some concerns were raised about how that information was managed.
Learning that it was managed under the -accounting@ security policy
satisfied the people who raised these concerns.

# [[!tails_ticket 8864 desc="Consider flagging first boot after installing"]]


We tried to answer this question: "is it OK that a given Tails device
has written, somewhere, whether it has been started already?"

a) if I root your Tails, what does it give me to know whether it's the
   first time it's booted?

and

b) if I steal your Tails, what does it give me to know whether it's been started yet?

and we didn't find any serious risks in doing so, except it proves
that a given Tails device has been *used* (which might entail more
legal risks than mere possession), which seemed overkill a threat
model to us.

# [[!tails_ticket 7151 desc="Accept donations via micropayment systems"]]

We quickly agreed about the general idea, and then discussed where
exactly we want to add buttons linking to Flattr. We easily agreed to
add them to the donations page. And then, discussing whether to link
to Flattr from each blog post, we ended up finding it better to link
to our donations page instead, replacing:

"There are many ways [[you can contribute|contribute]] to Tails.
If you want to help, come talk to us!"

with:

"There are many ways [[you can contribute|contribute]] to Tails, for
example by [[donating|donate]]. If you want to help,
come talk to us!"

intrigeri will have these proposals go through -project@.
