1. Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month
-------------------------------------------------------------

- anonym might already have dealt with [[!tails_ticket 7182]]: Identical branch HEADs can result in Vagrant building from the wrong branch
- intrigeri is working on [[!tails_ticket 5650]] (rngd)
- bertagaz is also working in background on [[!tails_ticket 7675]] 
- [[!tails_ticket 6311]] is better done after [[!tails_ticket 6310]]

2. Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- [[!tails_ticket 11075]]: Remove "Power Off" and "Reboot" from Applications → System Tools: we finally didn't had time to deal with this.
- [[!tails_ticket 11175]]:  Decrease I/O load created by isotesters on lizard - this one was meant for bertagaz.

3. Availability and plans until the next meeting
------------------------------------------------

- intrigeri: in March I should be mostly available for Tails. focus on SponsorS deliverables (mainly: freezable APT repo). except I'll have 1 week "off" (with lots time with new/wannabe contributors)
- emmapeel is frontdesk,Valencia, translators, doc tickets, translation worflow
- sajolida
0. Refine the ideal workflow and review early mockups on [[network connection|https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/network_connection/]] (on Sunday).
1. Make plans on what to do now and what to postpone regarding IA+DAVE.
2. Invoice the two latest funders milestone.
3. Start working on the redesign of the download page.
- muri: iff, beach, cij; then clearing translation backlog; doing some other tickets i've on my watchlist; also thinking about writing a small python keysingning ui
- anonym: I expect to be available all non-weekends all of March. I'll re-focus again on test suite robustness work, particularly on [[!tails_ticket 9521]] and trying out dogtail a bit more ([[!tails_ticket 7729]], [[!tails_ticket 10721]]). it also looks like I'll work on Icedove integration, unexpectedly. And look at Tails verifier.
- ticketbot: Tails ☺ Feature #9521: Use the chutney Tor network simulator in our test suite https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/9521
- ticketbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7729: Evaluate using LDTP and/or dogtail to improve our automated test suite https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7729
- ticketbot: Tails ☺ Feature #10721: Improve automated GUI testing robustness using "GUI aware" technologies https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/10721
- segfault: I will have more time in the next month than in february. I still want to work on the boot and upgrade process and on Tails server [[!tails_ticket 5688]]). And I'm looking forward to the review of the Tails verifier :)
- bertagaz: March, mostly available hopefully, but focused on the monitoring deployment

Discuss
-------

[[!tails_ticket 11047]]: Decide if we want to have monthly reports and who should edit them 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Everybody likes reports, but nobody gives input for them. Maybe a report that is incomplete is ok.
- sajolida feels is a lot of effort to go through the logs or ask people for input.
- Many of the 5 people that committed to make reports is not on this meeting so we skip the decision...
- sajolida: is happy to manage the April report (or March) even, but somebody has to handle the weight of the Feb report

[[!tails_ticket 11099]] Decide which pinentry we want to ship
-------------------------------------------------------------

- This and other related pinentry tickets will be taken by segfault. We will drop the custom code! yay!
- pinentry-gtk2 + no-grab is acceptable, given the UX regression seems to affect very, very few users (but the UX improvement would affect many users)
- [[!tails_ticket 11038]] pinentry and gnome shell's top bar cause freeze
- 

[[!tails_ticket 11042]] alt + shift switch the keyboard layout without indicating it in the keyboard layout menu
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- intrigeri takes it


