[[!meta title="February 2016 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Introduction

We do a bit more free form and skip topics for which people not here today
have a strong opinion (or might have one), because we're mostly new contributors.
So we skip "Hole in the roof" which are hard and boring.

# Important tickets flagged for next release but without assignee

  - [[!tails_ticket 11048 desc="Permanently remove the rest of the keyboard layout"]] and
    [[!tails_ticket 11044 desc="PXE Boot support"]] not triaged yet

  - segfault will look at
    [[!tails_ticket 11031 desc="Open URL feature of KeepassX doesn't work anymore"]] which
    seems to be fixed by installing gnome-open

  - [[!tails_ticket 10765 desc="Allow pinning certificates in Icedove"]] will be postponed,
    as it is a new feature (no bugfix, no regression, etc.) and noone present wants to dig
    into it at the moment

  - [[!tails_ticket 7496 desc="Make it possible to verify the integrity of a device created 
    by Tails Installer"]] segfault will write a mail to the list about this, we leave the
    ticket open for the rms

  - [[!tails_ticket 11000 desc="The Tor Browser's font fingerprinting protection does not 
    work in Tails" is already "Fix committed"

  - [[!tails_ticket 9844]] didn't find an assignee
  - For [[!tails_ticket 9949 desc="Audit AppArmor policy vs. hard links"]],
    intrigeri who has followed it has been pinged for status or ETA update.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

  - sycamore will write down some stuff about entropy
  - muri is still working on the l10 screenshot automation
  - muri also plans to take another look at weblate
  - spriver would like to start to translate the installation assistant
  - segfault wants to rethink the installation and upgrade process


# [[!tails_ticket 9555 desc="Include a pinentry GUI that's well integrated within GNOME"]]

upgrading pinentry-gtk2 from 0.8.3-2 to 0.9.7-1 improves things and using pinentry-gnome3 
would make things worse, at least for keepassx users. segfault will submit a branch that
upgrades pinentry-gtk2 to 0.9.7-1

# [[!tails_ticket 10913 desc="Keyboard layout keyboard shortcut has changed"]]

Right-now there as three keyboard shortcuts to change keyboard layout:

  - Super+Space which is provided by GNOME.
  - Shift+Shift which is custom to Tails (added in e492749). segfault
    will see whether we should get rid of this one as well.
  - Alt+Shift which is custom to Tails (added in 370f48c). Saying that
    this is the default in Windows might have been an ok argument at some point.

Seeing that [[!tails_ticket 11042 desc="alt + shift switch the keyboard layout
without indicating it in the keyboard layout menu"]], GNOME is giving it a different meaning 
by default: Alt+Shift shortcut will be removed. segfault will submit a branch.
