[[!meta title="July 2016 online meeting"]]

Unfortunatly, we were not able to reach redmine during the meeting, because the
cert was expired and hsts. The hidden service also didn't work as expected, but
we had at least the chance to access it for a short period time to get a list
of tickets to be discussed.
So no volunteers to handle "[Hole in the
roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" and no volunteers to handle
important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Availability this month

- nodens will be working on [[!tails_ticket 10190]] and [[!tails_ticket 7711]]
- intrigeri will be back to his usual Tails availability in ~10 days
  and will be wrapping up the SponsorS contract at end of july
- flaplap will try to get more people to do translations
- u's availability will be reduced, but connected
- segfault will be working on the Tails server

# [[!tails_ticket 10950 desc="Consider installing gnome-sound-recorder on Jessie"]]

We decided to add gnome-sound-recorder back to tails.
If we had to decide between audacity and gnome-sound-recorder, we would ship
the latter, because its easier to use for inexpierenced users. The former could
be a case for the 'additional software packages', but we don't want a
regression and there are usecases for audacity on Tails. Also g-s-r is really
tiny. Thats why we ship both.

# [[!tails_ticket 10100 desc="Enable Unsafe browser + Clearnet user via Greeter"]]

We agree with sajolidas reasoning on the ticket #note-6: there is already a
blueprint for a new solution and there are some ux problems with adding that
functionality to the greeter.
intrigeri suggested the middle ground to block/forbid the unsafe browser as
soon as Tor has bootstrapped, but thats not that easy to implement: one ux
problem to solve would be how to handle roaming laptops that move into a wifi
that requires a captive portal.  thats not worth the
coding/reviewing/documentation effort for a temporary solution

# [[!tails_ticket 11539 desc="Don't ship the testing and unstable APT sources"]]

Segfault explained that the reason for this ticket was that Tails Server needs
to download the packge list the first time a service is installed, which takes
a long time at the moment (30 seconds instead of 2 to 10 minutes).
There could be corner cases where this could break stuff. intrigeri: "say we
pull pkg P1 from sid, and then user wants to install package P2 themselves, and
it depends on P3 but the version of P3 in stable conflicts with the version of
P1 in stable, so the user would need to install P3 from sid, but we just broke
that for them."
We decided that this ticket needs more research into possible corner cases that
could be broken.
