[[!meta title="October 2016 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

# [[!tails_ticket 9905 desc="Documentation for a complete workflow concerning doc modification through patches: clone - build wiki - send patch"]]

emmapeel, who added this ticket to the agenda, was not present, so
those of us present made what we could out of it, which may or may not
match her initial idea.

Those of us present at the meeting found the arrangement of the
[[current docs|/contribute/how/documentation/]] satisfactory, but only
if you already know Git (at least the basics). After a quick survey it
turned out that quite a few of our current contributors pretty much
got bootstrapped into Git by reading
[[Git instructions for our translation team|contribute/how/translate/with_Git/]].
So in order to lower the barrier for contributing documentation, and
perhaps even recruiting some new long-term contributors along the way,
it could be worth extracting those Git instructions and make them a
bit more generic, and then include them on both pages (with ikiwiki's
raw include feature).

# [[!tails_ticket 11859 desc="Trusting Tails Installer & Ubuntu PPA"]]

There's still quite some confusion about what exactly the problem is,
so the discussion is continuing on the ticket, perhaps to be continued
at another contributor's meeting. At least it seems to have boiled
down to whether we should list the fingerprint of the PPA's key in our
docs or not.

# When should we launch the donation campaign? What's left to be done?

In short it is almost done. Given the availability of those handling
this, the best would be that it is launched this week (so latest on
2016-10-09) which will require reviews of the blog post (and
[[!tails_ticket 11824]]) to happen swiftly, which seems possible given
the promises made during the meeting.
