[[!meta title="October 2017 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: anonym, emmapeel, intrigeri, pablonatalino, segfault, spriver, u

- [[Logs|201710/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

Nobody.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There are no such tickets.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

u will add something about the reproducibility progress

# The monthly report is looking for coordinators

We still need someone for October. u will write an email to tails-project to ask people to do this.

# [[!tails_ticket 7224 desc="Link different design documentations from user documentation"]]

Problem description: It happens regularly, that people have questions or doubts about *how* we implemented what we promise. So we have to manually point them to the design doc. It's somewhat tiring. And chances are a few other people have the same questions/doubts but don't ask. We might also be losing potential new contributors there.

The proposed solution is to link from the documentation pages to the appropriate design pages, so that power users can better find those pages on their own. But we worry about the added complexity for 99% of the readers. We hope that a good web designer will find a good solution.

We agree that, to be more welcoming to that web designer, we would like to *first* propose a few (say, 5-10) design docs to link.

Intrigeri volunteers to create this list of design docs to link. Then we have to wait for someone to do the web design work. The actual implementation could be done by anonym, segfault or u.

# Other tickets

We noticed that there are other tickets to discuss, which are not on the agenda, but couldn't find / agree on one that would still fit in the meeting.
