[[!meta title="September 2017 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: anonym, emmapeel, geb, intrigeri, jvoisin, masha, muri, nodens, pablonatalino, sajolida, segfault, u

- [[Logs|201709/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

Nobody

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

- anonym will take over [[!tails_ticket 13625 desc="Root Terminal cannot start graphical applications"]]

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

- pablonatalino will substitute spriver as curator of the report and ask
  for help if needed.
- Help desk will add their "hot topics" after their meeting tomorrow.

# [[!tails_ticket 12402 desc="Include Yubico Authenticator in Tails"]]

- The landscape of hardware 2FA is still too fragmented and we need to
  wait until the the dust settles a bit.

  - State on the ticket that we look for that "one perfect" solution,
    and then mark it as *Starter* task and low priority.
  - We have more impactful things to do.
  - Retitle the ticket to "Research what 2FA solution (if any) is worth
    installing by default in Tails".

# [[!tails_ticket 12437 desc="Save coredumps to a sticky directory"]]

- segfault will prepare the discussion for a future meeting.

# [[!tails_ticket 7439 desc="Decide whether to remove the 'clock synchronization' notification"]]

This ticket was originally created as part of [[!tails_ticket 10491
desc="Redesign the network configuration and startup"]] and proposed *removing*
this notification once we have something much better. This won't happen any
time soon so the question is still open whether we want to:

- Remove it all the way, even without #10491
- Rephrase it

Random notes from the discussion as no decision was taken:

- This notification currently provides some (maybe not very good)
  feedback that *something* is going ("Please wait...") before Tor is
  ready.

- Useless notifications are bad because they train people in ignoring
  them. The utility of this one could be better studied.

- Proposals:
  - Remove this notification and instead improve the notification when
    starting Tor Browser when Tor is not ready yet. Hinting at the onion
    icon in the top bar.
  - Rephrase as "Starting Tor".
