[[!meta title="December 2017 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: emmapeel, intrigeri, jvoisin, masha, muri, nodens, u, sajolida, spriver

- [[Logs|201712/log.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

* intrigeri: triage [[!tails_ticket 10987]] ("Tails Installer
  sometimes fails with: No support for modifying a partition a table
  of type `PMBR'") and its relationship with [[!tails_ticket 15010]]
  ("Installer: get rid of workaround for udisks")
* nodens: [[!tails_ticket 8447]] ("Persistent
  data is not erased when persistence features are disabled")

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There are no such tickets.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

* intrigeri: two sprints & lots of work sessions + meetings scheduled
* masha: frontdesk
* nodens: low availability
* spriver: will be around
* muri: curate monthly report, look into errbot again
* u: available for meetings scheduled with intrigeri and here and there

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

People will add their bits.

# [[!tails_ticket 13649 desc="Decide what to do with Memory Hole in Thunderbird"]]

Problem description:

The new version of Torbirdy enables a feature called Memory hole, which is
shipped in Enigmail. This feature aims at not only encoding email text, but
also the subject as well as referrers. This is done using some kind of
encrypted meta headers and sending out emails with a generic subject. The mail
client is now responsible for decrypting and displaying the meta headers. This
works partly in Thunderbird, subjects can be decrypted while being sent with
the generic subject line. But the referrers and reply-tos are broken, as the
feature is not yet implemented and it has not even been defined entirely yet.
These encrypted subjects also don't not work with Schleuder.

Decision:

- We disable Memory Hole in Tails.
- We wait 1 more year before discussing again a strategy on when to enable it back.
- We keep an eye open on what other MUA and encrypted mailing list software are doing.
- Tweet about how cool Memory Hole is and that we want to enable soon but are blocked by other software.
