[[!meta title="May 2017 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

We skipped Hole in the roof, Availability and volunteers to handle
important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

Report not written yet. Spriver is the one to handle it this time.

# Discussions

## [[!tails_ticket 9900 desc="Externalize our search feature"]]

We agree that there are heavy problems currently.

- improving the search feature might also help decrease the backlog of
  frontdesk.

Are we okay to externalise the search feature?

- one of us feels uncomfortable to give up autonomy over the website
- two of us think it's fine
- one of us is asking if this would raise security implications to give the
  search string or several search strings of a user to a third party website.
  What's the worst that could happen? The user's IP could be linked to these
  strings and the person could be identified as a Tails user, if not using
  TorBrowser.
- All of us think that the security implications for users should be
  reconsidered with more core people present at the meeting before taking any
  decision.  So let's brainstorm some more on the implications of this.

We could nevertheless also research a better solution than the ikiwiki search.
Something like Apache/solr or another local search like phinde.

## [[!tails_ticket 12098 desc="Spurious screensaver activation while synchronizing the system clock"]]

There don't seem to be any bug reports about this issue, so some of us are wondering
if users are really confused by this.

Currently, the screen does not get locked if no root password is set, which means,
that the screensaver gets activated but not locked. A simple key stroke will disable
it again.

On a sidenote, segfault has been working on a tool which will allow to set a password if the
user has not set a root password but he will have no time to debug
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/5684#note-57 soon. As he's not been able to
reproduce the issue, we might want to ask for help on tails-dev or
tails-testers in order to figure out what's going on.

Segfault would prefer disabling the screensaver for now, if there are more
people than intrigeri who have experienced this. But for now it looks like none
of us has (some don't use Tails on a daily basis though).  So we do currently
agree that the issue is not important enough to totally disable the
screenlocker for those who have a root password set. Some of us use this
feature or think that it's important to keep it, even if it's not documented.
It seems to be an asked for feature as there are even howtos on Reddit on how
to install other screensavers on Tails.
