[[!meta title="February 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: anonym, drebs, emmapeel, geb, intrigeri, jvoisin, nodens,
  sajolida, segfault, spriver
- Actively lurking: ?

- [[Logs|201802/log.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

* intrigeri did enough roof work recently to take some time off.
* anonym will at least try to determine if [[!tails_ticket 5447]] is
  an issue for (non-VirtualBox) users. If not => reject.
* emmapeel has been working on [[!tails_ticket 10022]].
* spriver has been reading the paper from [[!tails_ticket 5340]] but
  gives no promise about finishing it in the near future.
* We have a grand plan ([[!tails_ticket 15292]]) that will solve
  [[!tails_ticket 12146]] if it gets funded.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There were none!

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

* spriver: (maybe) a bit of doc/translation stuff, but I'm starting
  slowly now and let's see how it'll go. I'll be online most of the
  days.
* emmapeel: i am on frontdesk shift and i also plan to work on the
  translation platform with drebs and next month also with groente and
  u.
* anonym: availability: I'm dedicated to the sprint and recovering
  from it for the next week, after that I'm available "office hours"
  (CET).
  plans: I am deliberately chilling with my plans, but I intend to
  kill my current Redmine plate. In particular my intent is to review
  [[!tails_ticket 12226]] (Tails Server) for segfault.
* intrigeri: plans: accounting sprint, budget forecasting, grant
  writing, negotiate new milestones arrangement with a sponsor
  (VeraCrypt), trying to do the other parts of my core work. and on
  top of that, try to enable Spanish on our website if time allows.
  availability: don't try to add things (that I'm not already
  committed to) to my plate. of course, foundations team & other core
  work is already on my plate.
* segfault: I will work on the VeraCrypt in GNOME project, the review
  of the additional software packages project, and probably the new
  USB image project and OnionKit aka Tails Server.
* nodens: availability and plans: availability low, will continue
  working on migrating openpgp-applet to salsa (but the final part
  will have to wait for *.pages.debian.net to have a proper
  certificate, so probably not before the end of the month anyway).
* drebs: i will help emmapeel with some translation work this month,
  not actually sure how much but i am reserving a couple or more hours
  a week for this.

# Important missing bits in the next monthly report

All non-trivial comments actually should go into the _next_ monthly
report (jvoisin will [do a presentation of Tails on March
10](https://www.federez.net/journees/2018/); anonym will write
something about [[!tails_ticket 15281]]). :)

# [[!tails_ticket 15275 desc="Remove the GNOME Keyring persistent feature"]]

We decided to implement this ticket, i.e. we will remove this
persistent feature and adjust the user documentation accordingly.

Rationale: the original reason for this feature being added was that
GNOME's NetworkManager applet used it for storing its secrets (with
the NetworkManager persistent feature storing all other data). But
this is not required any more, and we failed to find any other common
use case depending on this persistent feature, rendering this
persistent feature useless and nothing but a contributor of noise.

There was some brief discussion about whether we could remove
`gnome-keyring` entirely, but the reverse dependencies makes this very
costly, so given the small benefits we decided not to put any effort
into this.
