[[!meta title="June 2018 online meeting"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Meta

- Attendees: intrigeri, jvoisin, sajolida, spriver, u

- [[Logs|201806/logs.txt]]

# Volunteers to handle "Hole in the roof" tickets this month

Nope.

# Volunteers to handle important tickets flagged for next release, but without assignee

There's none.

# Availability and plans until the next meeting

- intrigeri:
  - availability: ~half time or slightly more.
  - plans: keep the FT boat afloat, RM 3.8, finish my ASP
    deliverables, stay on top of the VeraCrypt project since I'm now
    more involved than I used to.
- sajolida:
  - availability: "Full" expect June 11-15.
  - plans: User testing for VeraCrypt, bug fixing for Additional
    Software, kickoff the collaboration with Simply Secure, hopefully
    do some work on donations ([[!tails_ticket 14558]],
    [[!tails_ticket 14559]]).
- spriver: Translation platform, German translations
- u: I will do some Tails work this month: translation platform, an
  important accounting meeting, Debian work. Otherwise I want to
  continue work on another project.

# Strategic planning: Containers/separated identities without rebooting

We brainstormed why this could be a relevant goal:

 - Even if we claim we don't support this, for many reasons users do
   it anyway.
 - Making it easier to switch between one's "regular" identity
   (outside of Tails) and a "secret" one (in Tails) was mentioned in
   user interviews. But "without rebooting" is too limiting as there
   may be other solutions to this problem.
 - Such a feature would be very innovative.
 - This feature could encourage people to use more
   contextual identities.
 - Having to maintain multiple persistent configurations for multiple
   contextual identities is time-consuming, when most of the
   configuration (except identity-specific data) is common to all
   of them.

And then we brainstormed why this should not be a goal:

 - Perhaps this is not the best solution to the problems this solution
   would solve: having Tails running on cheap tablets, or booting
   faster, or being able to hibernate and resume quickly could achieve
   similar results.
 - The main problem is to better support switching between the real
   world and Tails (2 identities). Supporting 3 or more would only be
   a slight improvement.
 - This solution requires a full redesign of Tails, its
   implementation, how it presents itself to the user, etc. and the
   cost/benefit is not worth is.

And then we reached a consensus among the attendees: we drop this as
a goal but we replace it with a new one that is "make it easier to
switch between a Tails contextual identity and another identity
outside of Tails".

<a id="cris"></a>

# Gather comments on our draft personas

Chapter 2: [[Cris, the sensitive information gatherer|personas#cris]]

- Public opinion
  - *u: I would formulate this sentence differently: "Turn public opinion against these people."
    maybe "inform the public about the wrongdoings of these people"*
  - *u: well, i just realize the previous sentence is a bit similar*
  - *u: maybe "make it possible to legally accuse these people / put
    them in front of a court" ?*

- Pseudonym
  - *intrigeri: something is not clear to me: Cris is a journalist who
    publishes under a pseudonym, right? I have no clue how common
    practice it is. Have you?*
  - *sajolida: i agree with you. maybe Cris is working under their
    realname and hiding what they are working on only until it's
    published.*
  - *intrigeri: indeed, that would relate to many more real-life cases
    I'm aware of but I don't know the press world well.*

- Refugee
  - *u: as cris is a mexican refugee i'm unsure how they can enter
    mexico*
  - *sajolida: i used "refugee" but i think that Cris might just be too
    scared to live in Mexico (bad stuff happens there to journalists)
    but not legally prohibited to enter Mexico*
  - *intrigeri: s/is Mexican refugee/is a Mexican refugee/*
  - *u: ok, then maybe we shoudl use another word than refugee?
    emigrant/immigrant?*
  - *sajolida: ok for replacing "refugee" (we'll find a better word
    elsewhere)*

- Hide information about myself
  - *drebs: why is "hide information about myself" different from "hide
    my identity"?*
  - *u: i think hiding your identity is basically only about your name
    while information about yourself can be many other things like where
    you live, where you currently are etc.*
  - *sajolida: under "hide information about myself" we also put
    location for example*

- Too extreme
  - *intrigeri: my "raw subjectivity" comment: it's an important persona
    and one of the things we know at least some people use for. It's an
    extreme/minority one though. Thankfully the other personas balance
    things so the draft set of personas does not err to far on the
    "Tails for 2000 people" side :)*
  - *intrigeri: (because there's so many life/death threats on the same
    person & relationships)*
  - *sajolida: but Cris could also be anybody carrying sensitive
    information across borders for example*
  - *u: but cris need not be a journalist, they can be a human rights
    advocate, diplomat, doctor*
  - *u: i don't think this persona is extreme, but it's maybe more
    rare.*

- Resources
  - <https://www.forensic-architecture.org/case/ayotzinapa/>
  - Gaby Weber is a German journalist and has researched quite a bit on
    nazi past in Argentina, involving Mercedes Benz. She uses Tails.
