[[!meta title="Improve Tails source code"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>So you want to fix a bug or implement a new feature in Tails.
Welcome aboard! Please read-on.</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

# Foreword

## Why should I read this page?

Every Free Software project is a bit different from the others. If you
don't understand its development process, it is generally pretty hard
for you to contribute in a way that is both efficient and joyful for
you... and for its current core development team. This document is
meant to help *you* understand what you need so that you can more
efficiently and joyfully contribute to Tails.

## Focus on low-effort maintainability

Many, many Live CD projects — including a few ones that aimed at
enhancing their users' privacy — have lived fast and died young. We
explain this by their being one wo/man efforts, as well as design
decisions that made their maintenance much too costly timewise and
energywise.

We want Tails to live as long as it is needed: Tails is not meant to
be solely a pet project.

Since the early days of this project (i.e. early 2009), ease of
maintenance in the long run has been a major factor in every decision
we have made. Nowadays Tails is more alive and kicking than it has
ever been, and we feel this would have been impossible without
 this kind of mindset.

Our focus on low-effort maintainability has practical consequences.

First of all, we tend to **carry the smallest possible delta** with
our upstreams (i.e. upstream software, the Debian distribution, and
the Debian Live build tools). Pretty important details about this can
be found in our [[contribute/relationship_with_upstream]] statement
rather than repeated here.

Second, we try **not to reinvent the wheel** too often, and flee the
*Not-Invented-Here* syndrome like the plague. This implies very little
code is actually written specifically for Tails: most of what we call
*code work* on Tails is more similar to system administration than it
is to programming: we mainly glue existing pieces together; when we
happen to need a feature that no software provides yet, we tend to
pick the best existing tool and do whatever is needed to get the
needed feature upstream... which may, or may not, be writing a patch
ourselves.

# How to get started

## Pick up a task

This wiki is used as a basic bug tracking system: we use it to manage
our todo and bugs lists as well as our [[!tails_roadmap]].
If you already know which one of the listed tasks you want to fulfill
and it *only* has the `todo/code` tag, you can probably safely skip to
the next section.

So you want to contribute code to Tails but do not know where to
start? Our [[!tails_todo "" desc="TODO list"]] is huge and
frightening, but...

*Do not panic!*

Let's see how we can help you picking up a task. A few tips:

* Choose something that matters for you, such as fixing that bug that
  annoys you so much or implementing this feature you are missing so
  much.
* Choose something where your singular skills and knowledge are put to
  work.
* Have a look to the [[!tails_todo easy desc="easy tasks"]] list: there is
  something, in each of these tasks, that one can do right away since
  it does not require deep knowledge of the Tails internals.

On the one hand, you may want to **start doing practical stuff
immediately**. In this case, see the tasks that are *only* tagged
`todo/code` on the [[!tails_todo "" desc="TODO"]] list. You probably want to start looking
at the few ones that are also in the [[!tails_todo easy desc="easy tasks"]] list
first so that you can gain confidence and we can smoothly learn to
work together.

On the other hand, you may prefer **picking up a task that requires
some initial thought and discussion** before rushing to your
`$EDITOR`. In this case, you probably want to look at the [[providing
needed input guidelines|contribute/how/input]].

## Get in touch with our past, present and future

So you know what bug you want to fix, what feature you want to
implement.

Duplicated, unfinished or otherwise unusable work makes us sad, so
unless you are sure it is really easy you should:

1. **Gather results of previous research and discussions.** Search
   this wiki and the [developers mailing-list
   archive](https://boum.org/mailman/pipermail/tails-dev) for previous
   discussions on the topic you are interested in; [[!tails_todo
   usb_install_and_upgrade desc="some"]] [[!tails_todo tasks
   macchanger desc="tasks"]] are much harder to get right than one
   could initially expect, and you'd better see how difficult it is to
   implement what you want.
2. **[[Tell us|contribute/talk]] about your plans.** This helps making sure
   your idea fits nicely into the [[big picture|contribute/design]]
   and nobody is currently working on the same task.

# Hack

Tails is developed using a set of [[Git repositories|contribute/git]]. You
probably want to base your work on the `devel` branch. If unsure, feel
free to ask us.

Please think of how you will actually submit your work to us
**before** you have changed 20 files for 10 different reasons ;) In
other words, every commit shall implement one change and be labelled
with a commit message that clearly expresses the rationale of your
changes. This is needed so that we can review your work
without too much difficulty: just explain every proposed change to us
(almost) the same way as if you would explain it to anyone who lacks
the background.

# Submit your work

Before diving into technical details please consider reading our
(quite short) [[contribute/merge policy]].

You can submit small, easy changes as Git patches (prepared with the
`git format-patch` command) over [[email|contribute/talk]].

For bigger, harder changes that will might require a few review/fix
cycles before being merged in, it's better if you ask us to review and
pull your work from a dedicated Git topic branch. If you already know
where to host your personal repository in a public online place, this
is great; or else you may want to [fork us on
repo.or.cz](http://repo.or.cz/w/tails.git).

FIXME: mob branch on repo.or.cz? mob repository where anyone can
create and push `feature/*` and `bugfix/*` branches?

# Want more?

## Follow Tails development

Still here? Well, it seems you're not the
*patch-in-a-hurry-and-then-forget* type.

Then you probably want to subscribe to the [tails-dev mailing
list](https://boum.org/mailman/listinfo/tails-dev/). Maybe even
subscribe to this website's RSS feed (see the [[recentchanges]] page)
and/or track the Git commits (using [[our Gitweb|contribute/git]]'s RSS
features). And probably read Tails [[specification and security design
document|contribute/design]].

## Building images

You probably want to test your changes before contributing them back;
this may require you to [[build an ISO image|contribute/build]]. This step is
also needed if you need to [[contribute/customize]] Tails.

# Talk to us

[[!inline pages="contribute/talk" raw="yes"]]
