[[!meta title="Improve Tails by working on Debian"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>So you want to help Tails by working on Debian.
Welcome aboard! Please read-on.</p>

[[!toc levels=1]]

</div>

# Foreword

Our [[contribute/relationship_with_upstream]] statement defines our
relationship with Debian.

# Tasks

* Work on the [[Debian bugs that affect
  Tails|contribute/relationship_with_upstream#debian-bts]].
* Maintain backports for Wheezy: [[!debpts i18nspector]], [[!debpts
  monkeysign]], [[!debpts seahorse-nautilus]], [[!debpts poedit]],
  [[!debpts pidgin]], [[!debpts liferea]], [[!debpts redmine]],
  [[!debpts ruby-passenger]], [[!debpts ruby-rjb]]...
* Join us to maintain [[!debpts mat]], [[!debpts libgsecuredelete]],
  [[!debpts nautilus-wipe]], [[!debpts torsocks]] and [[!debpts
  vidalia]].
* Join the [Debian OTR Team](https://wiki.debian.org/Teams/OTR).
* Help [improving Debian's AppArmor
  support](https://wiki.debian.org/AppArmor).
* Help maintain [[!debpts ruby-libvirt]] in Debian, including
  up-to-date wheezy-backports.
* Maintain the Xorg stack in wheezy-backports (at least the
  foundations and the major drivers).
* Turn our OpenPGP applet into an independent upstream project,
  and package it for Debian ([[!tails_ticket 6507]]).
* Package Cryptocat for Debian ([[!tails_ticket 5484]]).
* Set up automated QA of [Debian Live](http://live.debian.net/)
  development branches, and/or change the workflow of this project so
  that one can backport improvements into the stable branches.

# Want more?

You might want to subscribe to the [tails-dev mailing
list](https://boum.org/mailman/listinfo/tails-dev/).

# Talk to us

[[!inline pages="contribute/talk" raw="yes"]]
