[[!meta title="Improve Tails documentation"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>Tails documentation would greatly benefit from your help.</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

Good documentation is difficult to keep up-to-date. If you find a typo
or an error in the documentation please let us know — ideally, by
submitting a patch with your correction.

# Find a task

The documentation on the website is not freely editable. The way we
document things has serious security implications. People should be able
to trust the Tails website as much as they trust Tails itself.
Furthermore, every change in the documentation possibly breaks the
translations that were made of the previous version.

But there are still many ways you can start contributing:

  - We maintain a list of [documentation
    tasks](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=172).
    You can start writing a draft in the corresponding ticket and then
    [[ask us for review|contribute/merge_policy]].

  - Small fixes and enhancements to the current documentation are
    greatly welcome. This can be done by sending Git patches to
    [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]] or by publishing a
    [[Git]] branch (for example to a fork on
    [Salsa](https://salsa.debian.org/tails-team/tails)). In general,
    documentation changes should be based on the `master` branch.

We recommend you to [[build an offline version of the
documentation|contribute/build/website]] to test your contributions
before sharing them with us.

# Guidelines and style

- [[Documentation guidelines|guidelines]]
- [[Documentation style guide|style_guide]]
- [[Checklist for writing release notes|release_notes]]

# Tools

## Find documentation pages impacted by changes in Tails

The `bin/doc-impacted-by` tool takes two "states" (see its `--help`)
of Tails, and checks the changes between these states against a
database of relationship between documentation pages and the source
files and packages impacting them.

The relationships between documentation and source files are stored in
`doc-source-relationships.yml` in the Git root. It's YAML, and the
format is something like this:

- The `pages` field is mandatory (after all, we want to find the
  documentation *pages* that might need to be updated). The remaining
  fields list source files and packages impacting these pages.

- All fields are interchangeable between the single and plural forms
  (e.g. `page` is the same as `pages`). Similarly, the values can be
  either strings, or a lists of strings.

- All string values can use globs and pathspec magic features like
  `{foo,bar}`.

To use these tools, please first install the dependencies:

    apt install ruby ruby-deep-merge ruby-git ruby-test-unit

<a id="compress-image"></a>

## Image compression

  - Images on our website are compressed and cleaned using the
    [[compress-image.sh]] script. To run this script you need the
    `trimage` and `mat2` packages.

## QR codes

  - To encode and decode QR codes, you can use the [[qrcode-encode.sh]]
    and [[qrcode-decode.sh]] scripts. To run these scripts
    you need to install the `qrencode` and `zbar-tools` packages.

    For example (run from Tails' source root):

        wiki/src/contribute/how/documentation/qrcode-encode.sh https://tails.boum.org/

    Creates a QR code in tails_boum_org.png. And:

        wiki/src/contribute/how/documentation/qrcode-decode.sh tails_boum_org.png

    Outputs:

        QR-Code:https://tails.boum.org/

# Related pages

  - [[Configuration of the production website|contribute/how/website/production]]
  - [[Translating Tails|contribute/how/translate]]

# Talk to us

You can subscribe to [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]],
our development mailing list.
