[[!meta title="Set up a Tails mirror"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>Setting up a Tails BitTorrent or HTTP mirror helps Tails users
downloading it faster and more reliably.</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

BitTorrent
==========

It's really easy to help Tails users downloading it over BitTorrent...
especially if you are already a BitTorrent user.

1. Get the latest BitTorrent files
----------------------------------

Here are the latest available BitTorrent files:

[[!map pages="torrents/files/*.torrent"]]

2. Share Tails images
---------------------

Feed your preferred BitTorrent client with the `.torrent` files
downloaded at the previous step. Make sure you open and/or forward the
needed ports in your router and/or firewall configuration so that you
are a real seed.

3. Stay tuned!
--------------

As a contributor to Tails availability over BitTorrent, it is very
important you share the very latest published version, and only this
one: users need to be able to quickly download it and upgrade when we
release security fixes, and there is no need to help propagate
outdated versions with security flaws.

A way to do this is to configure software to [[automatically download
and seed Tails over
BitTorrent|contribute/how/mirror/automatically_download_and_seed_Tails_over_BitTorrent]].

Else, new versions are announced on:

* our [[news list|about/contact#amnesia-news]]
* our <a href='/torrents/rss/index.rss'>RSS</a> and
  <a href='/torrents/rss/index.atom'>Atom</a> feeds that announce new available
  BitTorrent files.

<a id="http"></a>

HTTP
====

To efficiently help Tails users downloading it over HTTP, one needs to
have sufficiently privileged access to a web server with decent
bandwidth: a domestic DSL connection won't help; neither will a shared
web hosting setup that provides FTP access only.

To give you an idea, a few dedicated Mb/s is a must; you must expect
pushing at least **50-100GB** [[!wikipedia GiB]] (bytes, not bits) on
a normal day, and twice as much for a short period after each release.
So, it is a must to be able to push **at least 5 [[!wikipedia TiB]]**
a month, and **preferably 6 or 8 TiB**.

You will also need around **5-10 GiB** of disk space.

If you satisfy these practical requirements, please read on!
Else, please consider seeding Tails images over BitTorrent instead.

Before starting doing any real work on this topic, you may want to get in touch
(<tails-mirrors@boum.org>, [[OpenPGP key|doc/about/openpgp_keys#mirrors]]) and send us
your OpenPGP public key, so that any further communication between us
can be properly encrypted and authenticated.

The big picture
------------------

All downloads are currently served from a DNS Round Robin pool for the
`dl.amnesia.boum.org` host. But we are transitioning away from this
model (see the [[blueprint|blueprint/HTTP_mirror_pool]] for details).
This documentation is mainly about the setup we are migrating to, even
though most of it also works with the current setup.

Every HTTP mirror makes our files available under a fixed URL
(e.g. `http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/` or `https://yourdomain.org/pub/tails/`)
that contains per-version sub-directories (such as
`http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-lenny-0.6.2/`).

Pick a hostname for your mirror
-------------------------------

Your web server needs to answer requests sent to `dl.amnesia.boum.org`
(for compatibility with our current legacy mirror pool setup).
But that's not all: to be compatible with our upcoming mirror pool
setup, your web server also needs to answer HTTP requests sent to
a _dedicated_ hostname that is unique, within our mirror pool, to
your mirror.

There are two ways to pick that dedicated hostname:

1. Use a hostname of your choice, under a domain you control.
   For example, if you control `example.com`, you can call your Tails
   mirror `tails.example.com`. This is, by far, our preferred option:
   * it allows you to maintain that DNS record yourself, e.g. whenever you
     need to update your mirror's IP address;
   * it saves us a lot of work :)

2. Use a hostname of our choice, under `dl.amnesia.boum.org` (e.g.
   you may get `142.dl.amnesia.boum.org`). To do so, at the end of
   this set of instructions, when it's time to ask us to add your
   mirror to the pool, also ask us to create a dedicated hostname
   for you.

Manual set up
-------------------------

<div class="tip">
If you are using [[!wikipedia Puppet_(software) desc="Puppet"]] to configure
your server infrastructure, consider using the available [[HTTP mirror Puppet
module|mirror#http-puppet]].
</div>

### 1. Set up your web server

Set up a virtual host for the hostname chosen at the
previous step. The virtual host will need to
have indexing enabled and [[!wikipedia HTTP_ETag desc="ETags"]] disabled.

Please consider serving files over HTTPS. To be helpful in our
context, this requires a certificate that is considered valid by
mainstream web browsers; you can get such a certificate free of charge,
from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) for example.

#### Apache configuration example using your own domain

	<VirtualHost YOUR_WEBSERVER_IP:80>
	   ServerName yourdomain.org
	   ServerAlias dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   ServerAlias *.dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   ServerAdmin YOUR_EMAIL

	   DocumentRoot /var/www/YOUR_PATH/
	   <Directory /var/www/YOUR_PATH/>
	      Options Indexes
	      FileETag None
	      AllowOverride None
	      IndexIgnore README.html
	      IndexOptions FancyIndexing FoldersFirst IgnoreCase NameWidth=50
	      IndexOrderDefault Descending Date
	   </Directory>
	</VirtualHost>

And if you want to enable HTTPS:

	<VirtualHost YOUR_WEBSERVER_IP:80>
	   ServerName yourdomain.org
	   ServerAlias dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   ServerAlias *.dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   RewriteEngine On
	   RewriteRule ^/?(.*) https://%{SERVER_NAME}/pub/$1 [R=permanent,L]
	</VirtualHost>

	<VirtualHost YOUR_WEBSERVER_IP:443>
	   ServerName yourdomain.org
	   ServerAdmin YOUR_EMAIL

	   SSLEngine on
	   SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.crt
	   SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/apache.key

	   DocumentRoot /var/www/YOUR_PATH/
	   <Directory /var/www/YOUR_PATH/>
	      Options Indexes
	      FileETag None
	      AllowOverride None
	      IndexIgnore README.html
	      IndexOptions FancyIndexing FoldersFirst IgnoreCase NameWidth=50
	      IndexOrderDefault Descending Date
	   </Directory>
	</VirtualHost>

<div class="tip">
You can harden this configuration using the
<a href="https://mozilla.github.io/server-side-tls/ssl-config-generator/">
Mozilla SSL Configuration Generator</a>.
</div>

#### Apache configuration example using a hostname under dl.amnesia.boum.org

	<VirtualHost YOUR_WEBSERVER_IP:80>
	   ServerName dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   ServerAlias *.dl.amnesia.boum.org
	   ServerAdmin YOUR_EMAIL

	   DocumentRoot /var/www/YOUR_PATH/
	   <Directory /var/www/YOUR_PATH/>
	      Options Indexes
	      FileETag None
	      AllowOverride None
	      IndexIgnore README.html
	      IndexOptions FancyIndexing FoldersFirst IgnoreCase NameWidth=50
	      IndexOrderDefault Descending Date
	   </Directory>
	</VirtualHost>

#### Lighttpd configuration example

	static-file.etags = "disable"
	$HTTP["host"] =~ "^(\d+\.)?dl\.amnesia\.boum\.org$" {
		server.document-root = "/var/www/YOUR_PATH/"
		server.dir-listing = "enable"
	}

#### nginx configuration example

	server {
		server_name dl.amnesia.boum.org *.dl.amnesia.boum.org;
		etag off;
		root /var/www/YOUR_PATH;
		location / {
			autoindex on;
		}
	}

### 2. Download the files

Download a snapshot of the current Tails files:

	rsync -rt --delete \
	         rsync.torproject.org::amnesia-archive /var/www/YOUR_PATH/

If you have disk space limitations, you might want to exclude the
`/tails/obsolete` folder (which contains old versions of Tails) from the
download:

	rsync -rt --delete --exclude=/tails/obsolete --delete-excluded \
	         rsync.torproject.org::amnesia-archive /var/www/YOUR_PATH/

### 3. Schedule the pulling of the files

Your mirror should sync every hour + a random time (maximum 40 minutes).
Use `cron` or equivalent to schedule the same `rsync` command
as above.

    0 * * * * root sleep $(perl -E 'print int(rand(2400))') && rsync -rt --delete rsync.torproject.org::amnesia-archive /var/www/YOUR_PATH/

You can now [[ask for your mirror to be added to the pool|mirror#http-pool]].

<a id="http-puppet"></a>

Set up with Puppet
-----------------

It is assumed that Puppet is already installed and configured to function well
for your infrastructure.

### 1. Clone the `tails` Puppet module

Clone the module inside the puppet modules' directory of your puppetmaster. On
Debian, this directory should be `/etc/puppet/modules`.

     git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/puppet-tails /etc/puppet/modules/tails

### 2. Use the tails::mirror class

On a node where you wish setup the mirror you should include the class like

     include tails::mirror

If you need to adjust any parameters of the class, you should declare it like

     class { 'tails::mirror':
       webserver   => 'apache2',
       server_name => 'tails.example.com',
       mirror_path => '/srv/tails/mirror',
     }

#### Configurable parameters

See the documentation on top of
[the module](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/puppet-tails/tree/manifests/mirror.pp).

<a id="http-pool"></a>

Go wild: ask for your mirror to be added to the pool
----------------------------------------------------

As soon as your web server is ready, please e-mail us its IP address
so that we can add it to the Round Robin pool.

Also, if you decided to use a hostname under `dl.amnesia.boum.org`,
please ask us to create it at the same time.

<div class="note">

We will publish your email address, associated with the URL of your
mirror, in a file hosted on our website. If you are not comfortable
with this, give us an email alias that we can publish without
revealing additional information, such as
<emph>webmaster@your-mirror.org</emph>.

</div>

# Talk to us

You can subscribe to [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]],
our development mailing list.
