[[!meta title="Test experimental ISO images"]]

If you are a Tails enthusiast, testing ISO images of upcoming releases and
future features is a great way to make Tails stronger. If you like playing with
new features, identifying problems, and breaking things, then consider
subscribing to the tails-testers mailing list.

This is where we announce and report back on:

  - Release candidates for future releases
  - Feature previews for upcoming improvements

<div class="caution">

<strong>Do not rely on these experimental ISO images for security.</strong><br />
Only use them for testing purposes.

</div>

Release candidates
==================

Two weeks before each release, we publish a release candidate. It has the same
features as the upcoming release but needs testing to validate that they are
working correctly.

The release candidates are also announced in our [[news]] and [are available
online](http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/).

What you can test on them:

  - The new features, as described in the Changelog, linked from the
    announcement.
  - Any other feature of Tails, for example the ones listed in our [[manual test
    suite|contribute/release_process/test/]].

Feature previews
================

Every now and then, we also publish ISO images to test more specifically a new
feature we are working on.

They are available on <http://nightly.tails.boum.org/> and are announced
together with specific testing instructions.

Subscribe
=========

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-testers">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

Archives from the list
======================

This list is archived publicly:

<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-testers/>
