[[!meta title="Improve Tails in your own language"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>Willing to make using Tails easier in your own language?
Welcome aboard!</p>

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

# For native English speakers

Most of Tails developers are not native English speakers so you're
more than welcome to correct or improve our English.
For this, you can either follow the [[Git workflow|translate#git]] or
[[propose|contribute/talk]] another way that suits you better to share
your improvements with us.

<a id="translate"></a>

# Translate Tails

You can help correct, improve, or complete the translations of Tails
programs and documentation into your native language:

* **For French**, the existing translators
  team uses Git. So, read [[translating with Git|translate#git]].
* **For other languages**, read [[translating with
  Transifex|translate#transifex]].
* However, this website is [[translated with Git|translate#git]]
  in **all languages**.

<a id="transifex"></a>

## With Transifex

Most of Tails can be translated directly online with
[Transifex](http://help.transifex.com/intro/translating.html#translating):

- [Tails
Greeter](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/3-tails-tails-greeter-pot/)
- [Tails Persistence
Setup](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/3-tails-tails-persistence-setup-pot/)
- [Tails Installer](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/3-tails-liveusb-creator-pot/)
- [Tails Upgrader](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/tails-tails-iukpot/)
- [Tails Perl library](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/tails-tails-perl5lib/)
- [WhisperBack](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/3-whisperback-whisperback-pot/)
- [A set of various translatable strings](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/torproject/resource/tails-misc/)

You are now doing translation work for Tails on Transifex. This is
great, thanks!

Beware, we don't host Transifex.com, they do have their own privacy policy.

Further:

- It would be awesome if you did [[follow-up on
  translation needs|translate#follow-up]].
- You might want to [[translate the Tails
  website|translate#new-language]] too.

<a id="git"></a>

## Translation team using Git

On the long run, translators team often decide to use [[Git]] to share and
synchronize their work, and ask us to integrate it within the
official repositories.

### What can be translated

Various bits of text can be translated:

* **Custom programs** (Tails Greeter, Tails Persistence Setup, Tails
  Installer, Tails Upgrader, Tails Perl library and WhisperBack): each
  one has its own [[Git repository|contribute/git]], where PO files
  live in the `po` directory. Some have a `README.translators` at the
  root of their source tree: please read it.
* **A set of various translatable strings** live in the `po`
  directory, in the `devel`
  branch of the [[main Tails Git repository|contribute/Git]].
* **This website** must be translated in the `master` branch of the
  [[main Tails Git repository|contribute/Git]]. Please note [[there
  are requirements|translate#new-language]] to translate the website
  into a new language.

### gettext

The translation system used to translate Tails is called <span
class="application">[[!wikipedia gettext]]</span>. Every sentence that
needs to be translated is written in a [PO
file](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/gettext.html#PO-Files).

To edit these PO files, we recommend that you use <span
class="application">[Poedit](http://www.poedit.net/screenshots.php)</span>, a
cross-platform editor for PO
files. <span class="application">Poedit</span> is included in Tails.

Please ensure that you use at least version 1.5 of Poedit, as this version
handles line breaks of our files correctly.

When setting up Poedit, you might want to ensure to use "Tails translators"
or "Tails developers" as translator name and "amnesia@boum.org" as translator
contact email address.

If you do not use Poedit, but for example Vim or Emacs with the po-plugin, please
verify for each translation that the syntax of the files is not broken. In order to do
do so, please refer to the [[localization tricks page|contribute/l10n_tricks]].

If there is no existing PO file for your language, you can copy the
corresponding `.pot` file into a new `.po` file.

When working on the website translation, it is highly recommended that you
[[build the wiki locally|contribute/build/website/]] in order to verify
your modifications or to review the translations of somebody else.

### Workflow

You can take advantage of Git to send us your work by asking us to
pull from your Git branch. Here is the typical workflow used by Tails
translators teams:

1. Set up your personal [[Git repository|contribute/git]]: if you
   already know where to host it in a public place, this is great;
   else, [fork us on repo.or.cz](http://repo.or.cz/w/tails.git) or ask
   the Tails system administrators (<tails-sysadmins@boum.org>) to host
   your repository.

   On your computer, set up the repository. This example will clone
   an empty repository into the folder "tails":

   `git clone http://repo.or.cz/r/tails/yourrepo.git tails`

2. Then you will need to setup the remote Tails main repository.

   `cd tails`

   `git remote add tails https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails`

   Typing `git remote` should now show two entries:

   `origin
   tails`

   "origin" is your own repository, "tails" will contain the files of the
   main repository once we fetch them. This operation will require some time
   at setup, as it requires to pull the whole repository.

   `git fetch tails master`

3. Now setup git, type:

   `git config user.name "Tails developers"
   git config user.email "amnesia@boum.org"`

   Verify this configuration by typing

   `git config --list`

4. Create a branch for every translation you make, for example, if you want to
   translate the "contribute" page, create a branch named "translation-contribute":

   `git branch translation-contribute`

   `git checkout translation-contribute`

   Now typing `git branch` should show a star in front of the active branch.
5. Translate whatever you can in your preferred PO file editor.
6. Commit the changes you made to `.po` files.

   `git add <files>`

   `git commit <files>`

7. Merge our main repository into yours.
   Regularly, pull from the master branch of the main repository to update
   your local files.

   `git fetch tails master` will only fetch new files,

   `git pull tails master` will fetch and merge the files.

8. Push your changes to your online Git repository.

   `git push origin <name of branch>`

   `git push origin translation-contribute`

9. Ask other members of your translation team to review your work by writing
   an email to [[the mailing list for
   translators|translate#follow-up]], containing in its subject
   "(Review)" and the short code for the translated language, for example "[fr]".

10. The reviewer, once happy with the result, should ask on the
   [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]] to pull from
   the branch that was worked on, writing an email with "(pull)" and the language
   short code in its' subject.


You might want to consider using Git over Tor, for example, by using a Tails device when you translate.

Read more about the Tails [[Git|contribute/git]] setup.


### Let's get organized

You are now doing translation work for Tails using Git. This is great,
thanks! It would be awesome if you did [[follow-up on translation
needs|translate#follow-up]].

### Team duties

Our custom programs can be translated [[using
Transifex|translate#transifex]]. Work done there is not automatically
synchronized with the translations your team does in Git.

It is nice to minimize time wasted by unknown people who work, with
Transifex, on the same thing as your translation team.

So, a translation team using Git should regularly contact Transifex
translators (listed in the `Last-translator` field of the PO files one
can download from Transifex), either over email or using the Transifex
interface, to:

1. Thank them for translating Tails stuff.
2. Make it clear their work is not imported (and is therefore, well,
   useless).
3. Invite them to join the team and share the team's
   preferred workflow.
4. Invite them to subscribe to [[the mailing list for
   translators|translate#follow-up]].

<a id="new-language"></a>

# Translate this website into a new language

There are already some active website translation teams,
coordinating via the [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]].

So, you want the Tails website to be available in a new language.
Please keep in mind that it represents quite a lot of work.

Therefore, here are a few things that would be required in order to start
translating the Tails website to a new language:

1. A team of translators, not just one person, is necessary. That also
   allows for peer reviews between the team, more flexibility for
   example when an important deadline arrives.

2. At least part of the team should subscribe to the [[mailing list
   for translators|translate#follow-up]].

3. Since the content of the website is sensitive in terms of privacy
   protection, Tails developers need to establish contacts with
   trusted people to review the work from time to time.

4. For translations to be useful, they need to be maintained in the
   long run. This takes a few hours a month.

Once those conditions are fulfilled, the new team can start working on a first
batch of translations.

  - The Tails custom programs, as [[documented earlier|translate#translate]]

  - Important parts of our website:

    - [[/index]]
    - [[/about]] page
    - [[/getting_started]] page
    - [[/support]] page
    - [[/download]] page
    - [[/doc/about]] section
    - [[/doc/first_steps]] section

Do not hesitate to report the progress of your work on the [[mailing list for
translators|translate#follow-up]].

<a id="follow-up"></a>

# Follow-up on translation needs

Translators coordinate on the tails-l10n mailing list (*l10n* stands
for [[!wikipedia Software_localization desc="localization"]]).
Important changes to translatable strings are announced there.

Please <a href='https://mailman.boum.org/listinfo/tails-l10n/'>subscribe</a> to
the list if you want to become a regular translator.

Any message sent to this list is stored in a [public
archive](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-l10n/), so beware of
what your email content and headers reveal about yourself: location,
IP address, email subject and content, etc.

You can consult this
[archive](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-l10n/) to search
for recent translation requests.

See also the [translation
tickets](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=144)
on Redmine.

# Resources

- The [[localization tricks page|contribute/l10n_tricks]]
