This page describes the what lead us to initially implementing UEFI support in
Tails with syslinux. This implementation has been superseded by
a GRUB-based one.

Discussion and conclusions
==========================

We have conducted an initial research and testing effort, aiming at
choosing tools and procedures to add UEFI boot support to Tails.
Our goals and non-goals are stated
above: [[!tails_blueprint UEFI#goals-and-non-goals]].

The outcome of this project exceeded our expectations: we now have not
only all important design decisions made, but also a prototype
implementation that can already be
[downloaded](http://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_feature-uefi/)
and tested. It is built from our [[!tails_gitweb_branch feature/uefi]]
Git branch.

In this document, we first summarize our findings regarding the choice
of a boot loader, and state the conclusions we have reached. Then, we
discuss the implementation details that matter most. Finally, we sum
up the next steps toward deploying Tails with UEFI support to the
masses, and provide an overview of improvements that we may need to
make in the future.

Choosing a boot loader
----------------------

A large number of UEFI boot loader implementations are available.
We have limited our selection to the options that meet the following
conditions:

1. available in Debian (excludes Gummiboot and rEFInd);
1. actively maintained upstream (excludes BURG, ELILO and rEFIt);
1. easy to integrate into the Debian Live ISO build process;
1. no requirement to add boot entries to NVRAM;
1. no requirement to recompile or modify the Linux kernels we install
   from Debian (excludes the Linux kernel EFISTUB).

So, we have considered two boot loaders, namely GRUB (not to be
confused with GRUB Legacy) and syslinux (version 6). There is a lot to
say about these two pieces of software, and we will focus on the
criteria that seem relevant for a Debian Live system, and for Tails
in particular.

### GRUB

Pros:

* GRUB has *many* features and is highly flexible (e.g.
  scripting language, many existing modules).
* GRUB's support for UEFI has been tested in the field for a few years
  now, by many GNU/Linux distributions that added UEFI support back
  when syslinux did not support it ⇒ it supports probably more edge
  cases (aka. buggy firmware), especially for graphics support.
* GRUB supports [[!tails_blueprint "UEFI_Secure_boot"]], and is used (in
  various ways) by most GNU/Linux distributions that provide
  this feature.

Cons:

* GRUB is complex software. Its many features and configuration
  options can be slightly overwhelming, and may hinder our potential
  to attract and welcome new contributors.
* We would have to create a GRUB version of our menu and graphical
  theme configuration, and either migrate to GRUB for Legacy BIOS too
  (which adds quite some risks of regressions that must be evaluated
  and mitigated), or to maintain this configuration *in addition to*
  the existing syslinux one that would still be be used in Legacy
  BIOS mode.
* GRUB is not so popular in the Live systems world ⇒ might have issues
  in this area that major non-Live GNU/Linux distributions did
  not catch.
* We lack an evaluation of how hard it would be to backport recent
  enough versions of GRUB for Squeeze and Wheezy.

### syslinux

Pros:

* Tails has been using syslinux forever, and we are pretty happy
  with it.
* syslinux is very popular in Live GNU/Linux distributions ⇒ picking
  it gives good potential for inter-distro cooperation. Notably,
  Debian Live systems use syslinux by default.
* Debian Live's UEFI support will be based on syslinux 6.
* We were able to trivially backport syslinux 6 for Squeeze.

Cons:

* syslinux' support for UEFI is quite young; this is slightly
  mitigated by the fact that at least one high-profile Live system
  (Knoppix) already uses it, and presumably adding another one into
  the mix (Tails) might foster upstream development a bit, and result
  in rapid fixing of the most important remaining glitches.
* syslinux has limited support for UEFI boot from DVD; this is
  a non-goal for us in this iteration, but still.
* Using syslinux with Secure boot is [maybe broken, but maybe
  not](http://bugzilla.syslinux.org/show_bug.cgi?id=8). That is, it
  could use some love and testing, to say the least.
* syslinux is available in Debian experimental only, and it is hard to
  know when this might change.

### Multiple boot loaders

Technically, it is entirely possible to install multiple UEFI boot
loaders onto the Tails system partition (which is, conveniently, the
EFI System Partition). This would allow users whose hardware is not
supported by the default one, to boot using the other.

However:

* some hardware is only able to boot the fallback UEFI boot loader, so
  we have to pick a default one anyway; then, users whose hardware
  only boots the fallback UEFI boot loader *and* is not well supported
  by this one would not be able to boot Tails anyway, without fiddling
  (in unsupported ways) with boot loader configuration;
* the resulting user interface in the firmware boot menu would display
  more entries; hence, the needed documentation would be more complex
  to write, maintain, and, more importantly, to read and follow.

### Conclusions

First, we believe the user experience that would result from
installing multiple boot loaders would be much less smooth overall, so
we are rejecting this option for now. Still, if broader testing and
user feedback showed that none of the other available options is good
enough by itself, we might have to reconsider.

Second, in our early testing [[!tails_blueprint UEFI#testing-results]], GRUB
and syslinux appeared to be perfectly on par with each other, as far
as hardware support is concerned. To be fair, it must be noted that
GRUB was tested in the simpler, and likely more robust text-only mode,
while we have taken benefit of our existing configuration and
graphical theme to test syslinux a bit more extensively. So, with the
data we have at hand, quality of hardware support cannot be used as
a criterion in this decision.

We must say that GRUB's flexibility and mature UEFI support is
seriously appealing to us. Also, even if Secure boot is not part of
this first iteration, it is very tempting to bet on a boot loader that
is already in wide use in this area. Still, we feel that continuing to
use syslinux both for Legacy BIOS and UEFI boot will make Tails blend
better with the surrounding Live operating system environment,
particularly Debian Live, which has many advantages both for Tails
users and developers. Added to that, the lesser risk of regressions
for existing Tails users, and the lesser impact on our project's
resources, were decisive.

Our final take on this is to use syslinux 6 as our boot loader of
choice, for the initial UEFI boot support in Tails.

To end with, it has to be said that switching boot loaders in the
future appears to be pretty easy from a technical standpoint.
Of course, the quality assurance effort that would go with it in order
to assert the risk for regressions, shall not be overlooked: it is
generally bad for user experience to break support for hardware that
was previously known-working, even if the very change that causes this
breakage allows to support many more systems in total. Regardless, we
do not consider the current decision as set in stone. We think it
would be perfectly workable to switch to GRUB or another boot loader
later on, if it proves to be needed for future developments of Tails,
or to adjust our position to match changes in the
ecosystem thereabout.

32-bit UEFI
===========

Discarded implementation ideas
------------------------------

### syslinux

It's currently
[impossible](http://www.syslinux.org/archives/2015-May/023469.html)
with upstream syslinux to have both 32-bit and 64-bit UEFI boot
loaders installed in the fallback path, without forcing the user to
manually choose between them, which would degrade UX substantially for
users who have 64-bit UEFI working fine already.

Once the proposed patches have been merged upstream, we may want to
replace our current implementation with a syslinux-based one, for
greater UX consistency.

### 32-bit GRUB2 EFI chainloading 32-bit syslinux EFI

* syslinux 32-bit EFI installed in `EFI/TAILS32`
* GRUB 32-bit EFI installed in `EFI/BOOT/BOOTIA32.EFI`

=> did not manage to chainload 32-bit syslinux EFI from GRUB.
On Tails/Jessie (GRUB 2.02~beta2-22), I get `error: unknown error.`
after typing `boot`. This likely comes from
`grub-core/loader/efi/chainloader.c`.

### 32-bit GRUB2 EFI with native configuration

This requires to write/generate and maintain a GRUB2 configuration,
either semi-automatically (e.g. with `grub-syslinux2cfg`) or by hand.
