[[!meta title="Contact"]]

There are many ways to contact us, depending on what you want
to talk about.

All mailing lists are in English unless specified otherwise.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Public mailing lists
====================

<div class="caution">

<p>These mailing lists are public: subscription is open to anyone. Don't
send compromising information. Please respect the
[[code of conduct|contribute/working_together/code_of_conduct/]].</p>

</div>

<a id="amnesia-news"></a>

amnesia-news
------------

amnesia-news@boum.org is the mailing list where we send our [[news]] by
email. It has a low traffic and it is the right place to stay
up-to-date with the releases and security announcements.

Public archive of amnesia-news: <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/amnesia-news/>.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/amnesia-news">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

<a id="tails-project"></a>

tails-project
-------------

tails-project@boum.org is the mailing list where we discuss upcoming
events, monthly reports, and other non-technical matters.

Public archive of tails-project: <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-project/>.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-project">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

<a id="tails-dev"></a>

tails-dev
---------

tails-dev@boum.org is the mailing list where the development work is
coordinated and technical design questions are discussed. Subscribe if
you want to [[contribute code|contribute/how/code]].

Public archive of tails-dev: <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/>.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-dev">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

<a id="tails-testers"></a>

tails-testers
-------------

tails-testers@boum.org is the mailing list for people who want to help
[[test|contribute/how/testing]] new releases or features.

Public archive of tails-testers: <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-testers/>.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-testers">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

<a id="tails-ux"></a>

tails-ux
--------

tails-ux@boum.org is the list for matters related to
[[user experience and user interface|contribute/how/user_experience]].

Public archive of tails-ux: <https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-ux/>.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-ux">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

<a id="tails-l10n"></a>

tails-l10n
----------

[[!inline pages="contribute/how/translate/tails-l10n.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

Private email addresses
=======================

<a id="tails-support-private"></a>

tails-support-private
---------------------

You can write encrypted emails to <tails-support-private@boum.org> if
you need help in private.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-bugs.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#support]]).

[[!inline pages="support/talk/languages.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<a id="tails-press"></a>

tails-press
-----------

If you are a journalist and want to write about Tails, or if you want to
send us links to [[press articles|press]] about Tails, write to
<tails-press@boum.org>.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-press.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#press]]).

<a id="tails-accounting"></a>

tails-accounting
-----------------

If you want to fund Tails, write to <tails-accounting@boum.org>.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-accounting.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#accounting]]).

<a id="tails-mirrors"></a>

tails-mirrors
-----------------

If you want to operate a Tails mirror, write to <tails-mirrors@boum.org>.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-mirrors.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#mirrors]]).

<a id="tails-sysadmins"></a>

tails-sysadmins
---------------

To talk about our infrastructure (servers, test suite, repositories,
mirrors, etc.), write to <tails-sysadmins@boum.org>.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-sysadmins.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#sysadmins]]).

<a id="tails"></a>

tails
-----

For matters that are listed in none of the above and for
vulnerabilities disclosures, you can write encrypted emails to
<tails@boum.org>.

[[OpenPGP key|tails-email.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#private]]).

<a id="chat"></a>

Chat rooms
==========

You can join our [[users chat room|support/chat]] and
[[developers chat room|contribute/chat]]. Only a few Tails
developers hang out there, so email is preferred for anything that
might be of interest for the larger community.
