[[!meta title="Adam, March 2017"]]

Adam is an investigative journalist working in an organization raising
awareness around State surveillance and digital freedom in Western
Europe. He has been using lots of Tor in different environments for
years.

As part of his work, he uses Tails both fully amnesiac and with
persistence. He has dedicated hardware for running Tails: a modified
ThinkPad X60 with many parts removed and only minimal input and output
interfaces.

He uses Tails to create, edit, and sanitize sensitive documents before
sharing them with other people or publishing them. He doesn't want to
open these documents on his regular operating system. Sometimes he
doesn't use Tails for 3 months and then use it everyday during 1-2 weeks
to work on a specific story.

He also shares his secure machine with other people by his side to
review or edit these sensitive documents instead of having to send these
documents online. All-in-all he uses little Tor from Tails and use it
more for data isolation.

Maybe Qubes OS does more than Tails against exploits but Tails is a
cheaper and more practical way for him to create a secure machine: it's
cheaper hardware and has an easier learning curve. He also feels better
having a hardware isolation instead of the virtual isolation provided by
Qubes OS. When he wants no network activity on his X60 he unplugs the
Ethernet cable and that's it.

Things he likes:

- He trusts Tails because he knows personally some of the developers;
  the same could apply to Debian.
- Tails has been around for a while and is widely uses. It is well
  connected to the rest of the Tor community and has received more
  exposure.
- He is used to Debian and feels comfortable hacking on the Debian base
  of Tails when needed. He doesn't really know RPM and that's another
  drawback of Qubes OS for him.
- He's happy to see *OnionShare* in Tails now.

Things he dislikes:

- His hardened X60 has a 32-bit processor and he won't be able to run
  Tails 3.0 on it anymore.
- He finds it painful not to have the keyboard for his language listed
  in the short list of keyboards in Tails Greeter.
- He had troubles trying to install additional packages in Tails and
  instead reinstalled them every time. He wanted to use `scantailor`, a
  post-processing tool for scanned pages, and `tesseract-ocr`, an
  optical character recognition tool.
- He had troubles displaying local files in Tor Browser and thinks that
  it's impossible to browser for anything under `file:///` in Tor
  Browser.
- <strike>He had a hard time finding a direct download with the new Installation
  Assistant: *"I want a nerd link!"*</strike>
