[[!meta title="Claudia and Felix, January 2018"]]

Claudia and Felix are reporters working in a journalists organization in
Latin America. They investigate and report on issues such as
human-rights violations, enforced disappearances, drug trafficking but
always with a focus on the social impacts.

Their organization has been collaborating with others on a shared
whistleblowing platform for some years.

Claudia has been designated by her organization to be the person in
charge of the whistleblowing platform. She has an OpenPGP key to
communicate with other organization on the platform but she only uses it
for that. Actually, right now it's expired.

Felix is a sociologist but he "likes machines" so people call him
whenever a computer issue pops up in the office as they don't have a
dedicated computer person.

Most journalists in their office use Mac but their administrative staff
run Windows.

### Whistleblowing platform

The whistleblowing platform was set up by a tech organization from
abroad. They gave each organization some training on the platform and a
dedicated laptop to access it only from Tails. The training was focused
on the platform, so they didn't receive a proper training on Tails
itself. In general, little technical support was provided after the
platform was installed.

Though the dedicated laptop seemed to be new, Tails takes 2-3 minutes to
start.  Maybe it's because of the computer but they don't really know
because they didn't try it on another computer. All organizations
collaborating on the whistleblowing platform received the same machine
and some gave up on using it.  They probably got the worse computer in
the world!

It was not clear to them whether it was safe against malware to start
Tails from their personal computer instead of the dedicated computer.

When working on leaked documents, they download them from Tails but do
the real work from their own computers.

The first year Tails worked very well. But then they started having more
problems when the upgrades started.

### They know they should do more for their digital security

Their organization is aware that the stories that they are investigating
require more digital security but they are struggling with switching to
new tools. It costs a lot to change people's habit, especially with
older journalists who are not going to change their investigation
techniques.

Their administrative staff have their Windows encrypted using BitLocker
but the journalists on Mac are reluctant to encrypt their computer
because it would make them slower to start.

The organization is looking into switching their emails to a trusted
provider but they are not there yet. They tried to get people to switch
from GMail to Thunderbird but it was not adopted because people are
really used to GMail and found Thunderbird slow in comparison,
especially on bad Internet connections.  So they tired to make people
use OpenPGP on GMail with Mailvelope but this failed as well.

The same happens with Signal, which is not as fast and reliable.

But they managed to get people to use Mumble, hosted by a trusted
provider, for their internal meetings.

In general, even after learning from the recent [malware infection of
journalists in
Mexico](https://citizenlab.ca/2017/06/reckless-exploit-mexico-nso/).
It's very hard for people in Latin America to know whether they have
been infected because they lack local people who can do computer
forensics. How can you know whether you are being spied? Not to get
paralyzed, people stay blind to these issues and keep on doing their
work as usual.

### What they dislike

- Upgrades!

  Several time, their Tails stopped working because of an upgrade. In
  such cases they would get help from another organization collaborating
  with the whistleblowing platform which has more technical staff. Right
  now for example, their Tails has been broken since December and is
  being fixed by them.

  One of their Tails was so old that it was impossible to upgrade it.
  Felix installed a new Tails and copied the cryptographic key to the
  whistleblowing platform manually.

- Some months ago, they had troubles with their local keyboard
  configuration that was not always applied.

- They once lost the configuration of their persistence and struggled
  importing their keys back to the new persistence.

  When configuring Tails, some options are shown but it's hard to
  understand what they correspond to if you are not an expert.

- They have lots of trouble connecting to Tor. It can take up to 15
  minutes and Felix tried on different networks (in the office and at
  home).
