[[!meta title="Ray"]]

Ray is a security consultant and trainer in Africa.

From the 10 journalists that he trained in using Tails at the end of
2015, he knows of 2 who are still using it actively. They were the
people with higher risks. For example a blogger with high risks that
uses Tails as her regular operating system for her blogging activities,
for example while traveling, and be able to use shared computers.

Things he (and the people he trained) like:

- Tails has low hardware requirements and this is useful when traveling
  to be able to use it anyway on the computers that are available.
- The persistent storage.
- MAC spoofing. Using MAC spoofing in a news room, one of the journalist
  he trained realized how his activity on the network could be monitored
  because the IT person, not seeing his computer as being up on the
  network, came and checked if everything was ok.
- The Windows camouflage.
- Having a set of tools already installed in Tails makes it easy for
  less technical people to get started.

Things he (and the people he trained) dislike:

- Tails doesn't work well on Chromebooks but these are picking up in
  Africa because they are cheap.
- Tor often fails to connect on networks with low bandwidth.
- Looking for applications is hard for people who are use to their
  proprietary equivalents (*Excel* is *Calc*, *Thunderbird* is
  *Icedove*, etc.).
- After the training and the participants had to repeat the process of
  installing Tails again, some failed to carry out this process on their
  own and the one running on a Chromebook totally failed even during the
  training.
- Removing support for 32-bits computers will be problematic for them
  because they often rely on old machines.
- When working with a low bandwidth or connecting through a captive
  portal, after people started the Unsafe Browser, they tend to trust it
  more than they should because it's running from Tails.
