[[!meta title="Use the Tails desktop"]]

# <a name="live"></a>Understand the consequences of using a live system

Some other important things that need to be understood before
proceeding are the concepts of [LiveDistro, LiveCD and
LiveUSB](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Livedistro). In essence a
LiveDistro is an operating system (like Windows or Mac OS X, although
Tails uses Linux) that is run from some removable media like a CD or
USB drive.

Starting a computer on a media containing Tails doesn't change anything on the
operating system actually installed on your hard drive: as a live system, Tails
doesn't use your hard drive during the whole session. Be your hard drive absent
or damaged, it wouldn't prevent your computer to start Tails. Consequently,
removing the CD or USB stick containing Tails is enough to retrieve your usual
operating system.

**FIXME**: Not true because of time change

A consequence of this amnesia is that you can't save anything on the device
containing Tails be it files you create or download or any configuration you
might do. You should save anything you want to keep for later access into a
separate device (other USB stck, other CD or any device you would choose).
Future versions of Tails will propose a feature to save some files or
configuration, but it is still being developped.

**FIXME**: find an appropriate place for this paragraph

To end with, Tails is based on alpha software and is always being developped,
which means it might contain programming errors or obsolete protections. It is
crucial to stay tuned through Tails website (https://tails.boum.org/) and not to
rely on it for strong anonymity.

**FIXME**: end of unordered paragraph

# <a name="applications"></a>Walkthrough applications included in Tails

In this section we will now briefly present the main applications
included in Tails. Users are encouraged to look for further
information about them elsewhere and to experiment (while not doing
anything sensitive!) for their own benefit. All the pictures are
clickable to get them undistorted and in full size, but note that some
of the text is smudged in order to protect identities. Let us take a
look at the Tails desktop:

# Use the GNOME desktop

[[!img support/walkthrough/Desktop_en.jpg title="Tails Desktop as of 0.6.1" align="center"]]

**FIXME**: Upgrade the screenshot

The graphical user interface used in Tails is called GNOME and
shares many fundamentals with that of Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X and
most other modern operating systems, so if you have used any of them,
getting used to GNOME will take no time. As this document is not
intended as a complete guide for GNOME there are only a few things about
it that we will mention here to spare you some time.

First of all, in the upper left corner of the screen there is a button
with a logo in it, followed by three menus: *Applications*,
*Shortcuts* and *System*.

**FIXME**: check the English names.

The *Applications* menu is where you will find short cuts to the
installed applications. Please explore the different categories of
applications and try out those that seem interesting.

The *Shortcuts* menu is here to make it easy to access storage media.

The *System* menu allows to:

* customize some aspects of the GNOME desktop (*Preferences*);
* change some important aspects of the system and hardware behavior
  (*Administration*);
* shutdown the computer.

On the right of these three menu entries, a few shortcuts allow to
launch the most frequently used applications. Passing the mouse cursor
over one of these shortcut will display the application name and its
function.

In the upper right corner you will find a couple of icons, each which
offers an interface for some running application : the onion icon is
made to control Tor, the two computer screens are for the network
settings. Other icons help you keep an eye on the battery level if you
run from a laptop, one allows to instantly change the keyboard layout,
another controls the sound level. Note that the clock icon allows to
change the current timezone to make it show the local time.

You are encouraged to check these icons out with the left and right
mouse buttons, but we will say more about some of them later on in
this article.

**FIXME**: check the English names

At the center of the screen is a vast area called the Desktop. A
*Computer* icon provides access to storage media; the *Personal
folder* is a shortcut to the default folder where most applications
save the files; then comes the shortcut to this documentation, and
another allows to report a bug in Tails to its developers; to end
with, the Trash is the place where "deleted" files are moved.

When media storage is connected to the computer, additional icons
appear on the Desktop.

On the bottom of the screen is another panel: on its left, an icon
allows to minimize all open windows to show the Desktop; then come the
buttons for open windows; on the right, a set of four similar
rectangle icons gives access to four different workspaces.

# Type password securely on a public computer

[OnBoard](https://launchpad.net/onboard)* starts automatically with Tails and
is accessible by the keyboard icon in the systray on the top left of the screen.
This virtual keyboard that can be used to safely enter passwords using the mouse
when you suspect that a hardware keylogger may be present.

# <a name="cold"></a>Protection against cold boot attacks

**FIXME**: merge with stuff in Introduction

What happens if the police knocks on your door when you are running
Tails? This is a tough one to deal with, and there is not that much
that can be done actually. If you are really unlucky they have brought
with them freeze spray and other equipment which can be used to mount
a [cold boot attack](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_boot_attack).
This is done in order to get the contents of your RAM. Due to how
modern computing works, basically everything that you have been doing
for a good whike is stored in the RAM, so all information – including
passwords, encryption keys and the secret plans you wrote in a text
editor but then erased – may be stored in it in plain text. The more
resent the activity, the more likely it is that it is still in the
RAM.

RAM is usually considered to be extremely volatile, meaning that the
data itstores starts to disintegrate rapidly once power is removed.
However, it has been shown that the data might be recoverable for
seconds or even minutes after this happens, and apparently freeze
spray can be used to increase that period significantly. Once the
power is restored the RAM state will keep getting refreshed, so if the
power supply is portable the removed RAM modules' contents are in the
hands of the attacker. Alternatively the computer can simply be reset
(i.e. switched off and back on quickly), which barely even affects the
power. Then a tiny LiveCD system is loaded with the ability to dump
the RAM to some writeable media. In both cases the RAM contents can be
analysed in a computer forensics laboratory which might turn into a
major disaster depending on what they find.

So, what should you do when you hear them knocking? You should calmly
make a clean shut-down of Tails using the "Log out" option in the K
menu, then selecting "Turn off computer" in the window that appears.
Then you wait, possibly trying to buy valuable time by barricading
your door. There are two reasons for this:

1. If you are using an encrypted persistent home partition, the master
   encryption key will be cleared from RAM, preventing the intruders
   from getting it.
2. One of the last things Tails does before shutting down completely
   is filling the RAM with random junk, thus erasing everything that
   was stored there before. Unfortunately this might take a couple of
   minutes depending on the speed of your processor and the amount of
   RAM installed, so while this clearly is not a perfect solution it
   seems it might be the best thing to do.

As far as the authors know cold boot attacks are not standard
procedure within law enforcements and similar organisations anywhere
in the world yet, but it might still be good to be prepared and stay
on the safe side.
