[[!meta title="Accounting Team"]]

The Accounting Team is responsible for a mix of accounting, fundraising,
and management tasks:

- Accounting:
  - Keeping an accounting of the money held by our fiscal sponsors.
  - Tell workers when they can get paid for their work.
  - Process reimbursements of contributors' expenses.
  - Interface with our fiscal sponsors.

- Budgeting:
  - Build financial reports for both internal and public use.
  - Propose a budget each year to plan our work outside of grants. This
    process also helps review the paid work of the different core teams,
    adjust their mission, check the availability and expectations of
    workers, etc.
  - Help <tails@boum.org> take decisions on how to spend our money. The
    Accounting Team is *not* the entity that decides how our money is
    spent and this is the responsability of a larger set of
    contributors, usually <tails@boum.org>, sometimes
    tails-summit@boum.org.

- Fundraising:
  - Be the point of contact with funders and sponsors. The Fundraising
    Team builds the funding proposals and budgets but the Accounting
    Team is the public point of contact for everything related to money.

- Management:
  - Help teams recruit and onboard new members, especially regarding the
    organizational and financial aspects.
  - Build documentation to make this recruiting and onboarding easier.
  - Move forward project-wide discussions dealing with money and paid
    work like reimbursement, sponsorship, and compensation policies,
    etc.
  - Help teams resolve internal conflicts or project management issues
    that they cannot solve by themselves.
  - Identify overloaded teams and contributors and help solve problems
    regarding workload and calendar.
