[[!meta title="Foundations Team"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="duties"></a>

# Duties

The Tails Foundations Team is responsible for:

* maintaining the core Tails system, which includes e.g.
  - porting Tails to the new version of its upstream foundations, such
    as a new Debian, Tor or Tor Browser;
  - keeping our core code base up-to-date and maintainable, e.g.
    refactor or clean up stuff that has bit-rotted, migrate code that
    would otherwise rely on obsolete technologies;
  - maintaining the Tails ISO and USB images build system;
  - doing the _extra_ peer-review and
    [[release management|release manager]] work that corresponds to
    the above bullet points;

* welcoming and mentoring new code contributors;

* reviewing code contributions
  in a timely manner (1 week in general, up to 2 weeks if needed in exceptional
  cases). If nobody on the Foundations Team can take care of a given MR,
  it's the Foundations Team's responsibility to ask for help:
  [[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/merge_requests desc="Merge Requests
  (MRs)"]], and in particular [[!tails_gitlab
  groups/tails/-/merge_requests?scope=all&utf8=✓&state=opened&assignee_id=None&wip=no
  desc="unassigned Merge Requests (MRs) that are not marked as
  drafts"]]

* checking how important each issue forwarded by Help Desk is, whether
  it's worth documenting it, and validating the workarounds. If it's
  worth documenting the problem and possibly the workarounds, either
  put it on our Technical Writers' plate, or draft something directly,
  or merge a draft proposed by Technical Writer apprentices;

* triaging
  [newly created issues](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/groups/tails/-/issues?scope=all&utf8=%E2%9C%93&state=opened&not[label_name][]=To%20Do&not[label_name][]=Doing&not[label_name][]=Needs%20Validation&assignee_id=None&sort=created_date)
  when they are more technical than feature
  request (those are handled by the UX designers) or about bugs;
  reassigning to whoever is on Help Desk duty any new issue that's
  really a support request;

* ensuring that development discussions started on
  <tails-dev@boum.org> are followed-up;

* proposing a release schedule for next year once Mozilla's own
  schedule is available (generally during Q3), ensuring everyone
  affected is aware of it and OK with it (e.g. team managers for
  sponsor deliverables), leading this discussion to a conclusion,
  updating the [[contribute/calendar]] accordingly, and asking
  <tails-rm@boum.org> to decide between themselves how they will share
  the [[roles/release_manager]] shifts; things to keep in mind:

  - An emergency release is often needed shortly after [[!wikipedia Pwn2Own]].

* deal with last minute emergency fixes needed during release process,
  e.g. [[!tails_ticket 14962]];

* if time allows, do whatever code task the project sees as
  top-priority, such as fixing Holes in the Roof, important bugs, or
  implementing a feature that is needed to keep Tails relevant.

* Maintain Tails relevant Debian packages in Debian
  - Role: being the fallback, on behalf of Tails, to ensure these packages are
    well maintained in Debian (it's OK, and even great, if other pkg-privacy
    members do part of the work).
  - Tasks:
     - [Maintain a bunch of packages](https://udd.debian.org/dmd/?email1=&email2=&email3=&packages=libgsecuredelete+libotr+mat+nautilus-wipe+onioncircuits+onionshare+pidgin-otr+seahorse-nautilus+torsocks&ignpackages=&format=html#todo).
     - [Review and sponsor a few more packages](https://udd.debian.org/dmd/?email1=&email2=&email3=&packages=bilibop+keyringer&ignpackages=&format=html#todo).
     - Track Debian bugs and forward them upstream.
  - Duration:
     - as long as we ship these packages in Tails
     - until the EOL of the last Debian stable release (including
       LTS) we put it in, even if we drop the package from Tails:
       including a package in a stable Debian release implies
       a commitment to maintain it during its lifetime.
  - In order to communicate expectations to the person who wears this hat,
    Tails contributors can:
      - use the Debian BTS
      - mention `@debian-packages-maintainers` on our [[!tails_gitlab
        desc="GitLab"]]
  - Not in the scope of this work:
    * [Debian AppArmor team](https://qa.debian.org/developer.php?email=pkg-apparmor-team%40lists.alioth.debian.org)'s packages,
      Perl libraries our custom software depends on: intrigeri does it
      as a volunteer with his Debian hat.
    * [[!debpts torbrowser-launcher]]: we only use its AppArmor
      profiles, that we could easily take from upstream if the Debian
      package was not maintained.

* Track bugs related to the aforementioned packages in Tails and forward them
  to Debian.

<a id="meetings"></a>

# Meetings

Each month the Tails Foundations Team gathers for an online meeting.

- **Date**:
  - The **3rd** day of the month if it's a day between Monday and
    Thursday (inclusive)
  - The **6th** day of the month otherwise
- **Time**: 16:00 Berlin time (14:00 or 15:00 UTC, depending on the date)
- **Location**: [[`tails-meeting` XMPP chatroom|contribute/chat]]

As a Foundations Team member, if you cannot make one of these
meetings, please send the team before the meeting:

 - a brief status update about life, work and issues;
 - information about how much more or less work you want for the
   following month(s).

 People only maintaining Debian packages but not doing any other work in
 the team are not required to attend the meeting.

<a id="tasks-management"></a>

# Tasks management

This section documents the principles and guidelines we use for tracking
[[!tails_gitlab
tails/tails/-/boards/4?&label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team
desc="our tasks"]].

This applies on top of the broader Tails project's tasks management
guidelines:

 - [[contribute/working_together/GitLab]]
 - [[How to document progress|contribute/working_together/GitLab#document-progress]]

<a id="tasks-management-milestone"></a>
<a id="tasks-management-target-version"></a>

## Milestone

The Foundation Team treats the _Milestone_ field as a commitment.
Other Tails teams, contributors, and users should be able to rely on
the value of this field.

An issue
[[!tails_gitlab
tails/tails/-/boards/4?&label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team
desc="owned by the Foundations Team"]]
should have a milestone set if, and only if, at least
one of these conditions is met:

 - External constraints determine the timeline of our work.
   For example, we have to upgrade to the next Tor Browser
   major release.

 - We are _very_ confident we will complete the task in time for
   a specific release and we have a good reason to focus on it.
   For example, work in progress tasks can be good candidates,
   as opposed to starting work on a new task.

 - The task is on the Tails [[!tails_roadmap]]. In this case, the
   milestone should be a year, unless one of the above
   conditions makes us target a specific release.

Postponing a task to the next milestone more than once is not
business as usual — it's a red flag. Such a change should be
justified. The underlying problem should be identified and addressed:
for example, the assignee might need help or be over-committed; the
team could be under-staffed; or perhaps the task should simply not
have any milestone in the first place.

<a id="tasks-management-assignee"></a>

## Assignee

See [[contribute/working_together/GitLab#assignee]].

<a id="tasks-management-ux-improvements"></a>

## UX improvements

Our [[UX designers|roles/ux]] maintain a
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/issues?scope=all&utf8=✓&state=opened&label_name%5B%5D=UX%3Adebt
desc="list of UX improvements"]] that would be welcome,
using the "UX:debt" label.

From time to time, some Foundations Team members meet with UX
designers and do a value/cost analysis of these issues. Then, those
with the best value/cost, that we can work on without waiting for lots
of UX design work to be done, are added to
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/issues?scope=all&utf8=✓&state=opened&label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team&label_name%5B%5D=UX%3Adebt
desc="our list of tasks"]].
That is, working on them automatically qualifies as Foundations Team work.

In general, before looking for other UX improvements we could work on,
we should first focus on these selected issues and on the most
important or urgent of our other [[duties|foundations_team#duties]].

Still, while keeping this in mind, you might personally be
particularly interested in working on an issue that has the "UX:debt" label,
but that was not added to our plate yet.
It is an option to turn one such issue into Foundations Team work,
provided a few conditions are met.

The Foundations Team lead maintains a list of issues that meet
these conditions:

 - [[!tails_ticket 15169]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 12638]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 15573]]

These tickets are not part of the top ones in terms of value/cost but could
nevertheless be turned into Foundations Team work if you are particularly
interested in working on them:

 - [[!tails_ticket 6084]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 8061]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 15028]]

You can check yourself if a particular issue meets all these
conditions:

 - Our UX designers added the `UX:debt` label.

 - It is possible work on it without waiting for lots of UX work to be done first.
   To determine whether that's the case:
    - Look at the "UX" cost column in the spreadsheet attached to
      [[!tails_ticket 14544]]. An issue with a UX cost of 2 or more
      probably does not qualify.
    - In doubt, ask our UX designers.

 - The P×S/Cdev value is 1.0 or greater, in the spreadsheet that's
   attached to [[!tails_ticket 14544]].

When you start working on such an issue:

 - Assign it to yourself.

 - Notify our [[UX designers|roles/ux]] with a `@sajolida` mention on
   the issue: then they can explain what kind of work they have to do
   before you can complete your part of the work.

<a id="tasks-management-useful-links"></a>

## Useful links

 - [[!tails_gitlab
   tails/tails/-/boards/4?&label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team&milestone_title=%23upcoming
   desc="Board: our tasks scheduled for the upcoming milestone"]]

 - [[!tails_gitlab
   tails/tails/-/boards/4?&label_name%5B%5D=Core%20Work%3AFoundations%20Team&milestone_title=%23started
   desc="Board: our tasks scheduled for any started milestone"]]

# Internal tools

## Team mailing list

Foundations Team members are on the <tails-foundations@boum.org>
Schleuder mailing list.

## Private Git repository

To set it up:

1. Install needed tools

        apt install git-remote-gcrypt

2. Clone it the repo

        git clone gcrypt::git@gitlab-ssh.tails.boum.org:tails/foundations.git

3. Follow the setup documentation: `README.md` in the Git repository.

<a id="contact"></a>

# Contact

To get in touch with the entire Foundations Team, you can:

 - write to <tails-foundations@boum.org>;
 - mention `@foundations-team` on GitLab: GitLab will send an email notification
   about it to every member of the Foundations Team, and add it to their
   To-Do list.

You can encrypt your email with our [[OpenPGP key|tails-foundations.key]]
([[details|doc/about/openpgp_keys#foundations]]).
