[[!meta title="Help Desk"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

Main purpose
============

The end-goal of Help Desk, when handling individual support requests, is to
**help improve Tails for a broad range of users** — as opposed to merely helping
one individual user solve the immediate problem they're facing, which does not
scale and does not help anyone else.

The output of Help Desk work is then used:

 - by the Foundations Team, Technical writers, and UX designers,
   to prioritize their own work;

 - by the broader Tails community, to feed the thought process about our vision
   for Tails in the future, and help us build a relevant roadmap.

Duties
======

Triaging user support requests
------------------------------

Help Desk receives and triages user support requests by email:

 - WhisperBack reports
 - private user support requests received on
   [[tails-support-private@boum.org|about/contact#tails-support-private]]

Additionally, if Help Desk members feel like it, once the email part has been
dealt with, they may triage user support requests on other communication
platforms, such as XMPP or Reddit.

### Information we are looking for

To achieve its main purpose, Help Desk treats WhisperBack reports and support
requests as a source of information that can teach the project something that we
don't know yet. In particular, we're looking for:

 - problems that affect many users:

   - software bugs
   - UX problems
   - feature requests

 - hardware support regressions that affect a broad range of hardware

 - workarounds for hardware support problems

Once the [[!tails_ticket 17935 description="auto-reply"]] is in place, we'll
stop manually answering support requests that don't serve the main purpose of
Help Desk.

### Relaying information to the relevant teams

If you have spotted new information that you think can be used to improve Tails,
relay it to the relevant teams:

1. Gather information about the context in which the problem
   occurs, how important it is, what known workarounds exist.

2. Forward the WhisperBack report over email.

   In order to point the Foundations Team's "frontdesk" to a report, instead
   reply to it on <tails-bugs@boum.org>, adding the `[FT]` tag in the subject.

3. If the problem is big enough to warrant tracking it in GitLab,
   file a GitLab issue assigned to the relevant team, referencing the
   WhisperBack report ID.

   If possible, provide statistics about how many people are impacted.

The relevant team will take a look and decide what to do about the problem.

### GitLab issue description = the source of truth

We use the description of GitLab issues that are relevant to Help Desk's work
to share and maintain this information:

 - standard reply by Help Desk to affected users

 - list of information that we need users to provide

For example, see [[!tails_ticket 13576#we-need-your-feedback]].

Then:

 - Help Desk points the current bug reporter and future ones to the GitLab issue.

   This avoids having to write essentially the same answer multiple times,
   which lowers the workload of the Help Desk.

   This also ensures the affected users get up-to-date information.

 - Some users will find the information themselves on GitLab.

   This lowers the workload of the Help Desk.

 - Technical writers can improve the phrasing.

   This increases the chances affected users can workaround the problem or
   provide the information we need.

 - Developers can update the technical information.

   For example:

    - To ask affected users to test a nightly built image that may fix the problem.
    - To request more technical information from affected users.

### Sometimes, it's OK to stop answering users

It's OK to stop answering users once we have done either one of:

 - gathered the information we will need to improve Tails
 - realized that we won't realistically be able to improve Tails in this respect
 - determined that the affected use case is low on our list of priorities

### Hardware support problems

In general, our resources don't allow us to solve hardware support problems.
This is why, in this area, we limit our ambitions to:

 - Identifying recently introduced regressions that affect a broad range of hardware.
 - Documenting workarounds our users have discovered themselves and reported to us.

Standard operating procedure: [[standard reply to hardware support reports for
which we can't do anything|support/help_desk_standard_replies]]

Stay up-to-date regarding Tails changes
---------------------------------------

In order to triage user support requests, Help Desk needs to remain continuously
aware of changes that affect Tails users:

- Read Tails [[news]].

  In particular, when a new Tails was published, carefully read the
  release notes.

- Scan the detailed [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]]
  entry when a new Tails was released.

Mailing list moderation
-----------------------

Administer and moderate our general purpose public mailing lists:

 - [tails-dev@boum.org](https://www.autistici.org/mailman/admin/tails-dev)
 - [tails-l10n@boum.org](https://www.autistici.org/mailman/admin/tails-l10n)
 - [tails-testers@boum.org](https://www.autistici.org/mailman/admin/tails-testers)

Work organization
=================

- When Help Desk resources don't allow covering every shift, it's OK to:

   - Skip some shifts entirely

   - Do some shifts in read-only mode: no answers, only skim over reports,
     looking for major new issues to report them back to the project.

   - Ask for help outside of the current Help Desk team.

- Help Desk members are expected to follow-up on communications even when not
  on shift.
