[[!meta title="Technical writer"]]

Technical writers are responsible for the creation and maintenance of
our end-user documentation, including our support pages:

  - Fixing regressions or important bugs on our
    documentation. This includes tasks identified through:
    - User support on WhisperBack, XMPP, etc.
    - The work of technical writers themselves.
    - The Tails community in general.
  - Redacting release notes based on the
    Changelog excerpts provided by RM.
  - Redacting exceptional publications on our
    blog (security advisory, etc.) or reviewing
    them against our style guide.
  - Reviewing contributions by paid workers or volunteer contributors to our
    documentation against our style guide.
    For example, the [[Foundations Team]]
    sometimes writes known issues.
  - Maintaining a style guide of Tails-related terms and usage to
    summarizes the terminology decision taken elsewhere.
  - Documenting new features, including [[doc/about/features]].
  - Documenting known issues and their workarounds (e.g. on the
    [[FAQ|support/faq]] or in the list
    [[known issues|support/known_issues]]), based on information
    provided by our Help Desk and triaged by the Foundations Team.
  - Keeping our documentation efficient for the people
    reading them (relevant and easy to navigate).
  - Maintaining our documentation on tools that are not part of Tails but
    that we instruct people to use. For example,
    testing, updating, and debugging *Etcher* or the Secure Boot utilities
    of macOS.

On top of end-user documentation, technical writers can help with:

  - Improving the most important parts of the contributors
    documentation, for example, the pages that apply to all contributors
    like GitLab instructions.

As technical writers have a limited amount of time to dedicate to these
tasks, Tails as a project should redefine priorities on a regular basis.
As general guidelines we should give priority to:

  - Tasks that have to be completed for a given version because
    documentation is a blocker for releasing.
  - Tasks that impact users the most or that impact the largest number of users.
  - Tasks that have the highest impact on sustainability.

These tasks are tracked using the
[[!tails_gitlab
tails/tails/-/boards/5?&label_name%5B%5D=Core+Work%3ATechnical+writing
desc="Core work: Technical writing"]]
label on GitLab.
