[[!meta title="Translation platform maintainers"]]


([[!tails_ticket 17050]]).

The general mission of these maintainers is **to make sure that [[Tails
translators|contribute/how/translate]] can translate our website easily,
while not compromising the safety of the rest of the Tails ecosystem**.
We mantain the translation platform, but **not the translations**.

If you want to comment on a problem with a specific
translation, please contact
[[tails-l10n|https://tails.boum.org/contribute/how/translate/#follow-up]].

**Responsibilities of the whole team**:

* Manage the budget for this team.
* Keep track of upcoming big changes (e.g. Weblate dropping support for the
  database we are using, or gaining extra non-trivial dependencies) and plan
  the work we will have to do to adjust.
* Refine, update and document the translation workflow.
* Report about the team to the rest of Tails.
* Monitor error messages (Weblate, server, integrations).

**Backend responsibilities**:

* Maintain and upgrade Weblate.
* Maintain and improve the integration with the Tails website.
* Maintain and improve the generation of the staging website.
* Keep the [[technical design documentation|contribute/design/translation_platform]] up-to-date.
* Implement backend changes needed for the translation workflow.
* Fix crashes in the whole setup.

**Frontend responsibilities**:

* Facilitate the process of adding new languages for translation:
  * Introduction of new language teams if no Tails translator takes the lead.
  * Final, more technical review when new languages are deemed ready (make sure
    that the new language does not break the website).
* Hear feedback from translators, facilitate these discussions until they reach
  a conclusion, and report to upstream when needed.
* Grant reviewer permissions (following our [[documented process|contribute/how/translate/with_translation_platform/]]).
* Maintain documentation for translators.

# Resources

 - [[design documentation|contribute/design/translation_platform]]
 - [[operations documentation|translation_platform/operations]]
 - [[documentation for translators|contribute/how/translate/with_translation_platform]]
