[[!meta title="Verification JavaScript maintainers"]]

The maintenance of the [[verification
JavaScript|design/download_verification]] falls slightly outside of our
current skill set and it's hard to find a person who can take over all
its maintenance. So the work is split among different people according
to their skills and availability:

- The maintainer:
  - Tracks the release of Forge and update it.
  - Tests the verification JavaScript on beta versions of Firefox and Chrome.
  - Tests and releases new versions of the verification JavaScript.
  - Maintains the corresponding HTML and JavaScript on our website.
  - Manages the yearly budget for the maintenance of the verification JavaScript and
    allocate the work to be done to other contributors.

- Other contributors:
  - Ports the verification JavaScript to new versions of Firefox, Chrome,
    and Forge.
  - Our secret JavaScript expert when we have no other option or when we
    require more security expertise.

Release process
===============

We run this release process before releasing a new version of Forge or a change
in the verification code.

<div class="caution">

<p>During the release process, you will download several pieces of software over
TLS only which is not trustworthy enough to be compliant with the "third-party
software" requirement of the security policy of some of our internal teams.</p>

<p>You should isolate these pieces of software, for example by only running them
in a dedicated Tails.</p>

</div>

Updating Forge
--------------

Website: <https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge/>

Release feed: <https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge/releases.atom>

1. Check which is the current version:

       head -n 1 wiki/src/install/inc/js/forge.sha256.js

1. Check the upstream Changelog for new versions:

   <https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md>

1. Clone the upstream repository:

       git clone https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge.git

1. Install the build dependencies:

       apt install -t unstable npm webpack

1. Build Forge:

       export FORGE_VERSION=
       wget -O forge/webpack.config.js https://tails.boum.org/contribute/working_together/roles/verification_javascript/forge.webpack.config.js
       cd forge
       git reset --hard $FORGE_VERSION
       rm dist/*
       torsocks npm install
       npm run build
       cd ..

1. Copy into our repo:

       cp forge/dist/forge.sha256.js wiki/src/install/inc/js/forge.sha256.js

1. Add copyright information:

       sed -i "1s/^/\/*! Forge v$FORGE_VERSION | (c) Digital Bazaar, Inc. *\/\n/" wiki/src/install/inc/js/forge.sha256.js

Which browsers to test
----------------------

Perform the following steps for each of:

  - Tor Browser in the latest Tails, in a non-English locale of your choice:

        LANG=pt_BR.UTF-8 tor-browser

  - The version of Firefox available in Debian stable:

        sudo apt install firefox-esr
        firefox-esr

  - The latest beta version of Firefox:

    <https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/beta/all/>

        wget -cO firefox.tar.bz2 "https://download.mozilla.org/?product=firefox-beta-latest-ssl&os=linux64&lang=en-US"
        tar jxvf firefox.tar.bz2
        firefox/firefox --new-instance

  - The version of Chromium available in Debian stable:

        sudo apt install chromium
        chromium

  - The latest beta version of Chrome:

    <https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/beta.html>

        wget -cO google-chrome-beta_current_amd64.deb https://dl.google.com/linux/direct/google-chrome-beta_current_amd64.deb
        sudo dpkg -i google-chrome-beta_current_amd64.deb
        sudo apt-get -f install
        google-chrome-beta

Steps
-----

1. In Tails, configure a system proxy:

   Settings → Network → Network proxy → Manual

   Socks Host:	127.0.0.1	9050

1. Check that verifying the USB image of the last Tails version works in all browsers.

1. Check that verifying a truncated USB image fails in all browsers:

       dd if=tails-amd64-3.14.img of=tails-amd64-3.14-truncated.img bs=1M count=100

1. Check that verifying a rogue USB image fails in all browser:

       sed 's/\x54\x61\x69\x6c\x73/\x46\x61\x69\x6c\x73/' tails-amd64-3.14.img > tails-amd64-3.14-rogue.img

1. To detect backward incompatible changes,
   if any changes were made to the HTML or CSS, verify that the new
   download page works with the previous version of the
   `wiki/src/install/inc/js/download.js`.

   Otherwise, fix the incompatibility or rename the new JavaScript file
   as `wiki/src/install/inc/js/download-2.js`.

   See our discussion about [deploying backward- incompatible
   changes](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues/16091#note_159623)
   on GitLab.

Checklist
---------

    - [ ] Tor Browser
      - [ ] IMG
        - [ ] Good
        - [ ] Truncated
        - [ ] Rogue
    - [ ] Firefox ESR
      - [ ] IMG
        - [ ] Good
        - [ ] Truncated
        - [ ] Rogue
    - [ ] Firefox Beta
      - [ ] IMG
        - [ ] Good
        - [ ] Truncated
        - [ ] Rogue
    - [ ] Chromium
      - [ ] IMG
        - [ ] Good
        - [ ] Truncated
        - [ ] Rogue
    - [ ] Chrome Beta
      - [ ] IMG
        - [ ] Good
        - [ ] Truncated
        - [ ] Rogue
    - [ ] Backward incompatibility
