[[!meta title="How to add Icinga2 checks in the Tails infrastructure"]]

First, see the
[[description of our Icinga2 setup|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins#icinga2]].

<!-- The [upstream Icinga2 Puppet -->
<!-- module](https://git.icinga.org/?p=icinga2.git), which may help in -->
<!-- simplifying our Puppet manifest, requires to use the puppetdb backend to -->
<!-- support its complex exported resources. In Debian Jessie, exported -->
<!-- resources are only supported through the Active Records backend, so we -->
<!-- can't use this Puppet module right now. Until PuppetDB can be -->
<!-- used (possibly in Stretch), we have to write more Puppet code to add  -->
<!-- new checks. -->

# Plugins

Icinga2 *plugins* are scripts or software executed by Icinga2 to
retrieve services data. Icinga2 natively ships a bunch of them. Have a
look [at the
documentation](https://icinga.com/docs/icinga2/latest/doc/10-icinga-template-library/#plugin-check-commands)
if one fits our needs. If not, you'll have to install your custom
plugin. Example: the `tails::monitoring::plugin::check_torbrowser_archive`
class in [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]].

A plugin class is not included directly: instead, it is
included from the corresponding *check command* class. See below.

# Check commands

A *check command* tells Icinga2 how to use a plugin. It
describes the options that can be used, and helps to configure for a
service how this plugin will be executed. If you intend to use a new
custom plugin, you also need to install the related check command.
Example: the `tails::monitoring::checkcommand::torbrowser_archive`
class in [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]].

If you're using a new custom plugin, that's the place where you should
include its manifest so that it is installed on every system for which a
service check is using it.

# Services

Once plugins and check commands are implemented, you can define the
corresponding *service check*.

Have a look at the `tails::monitoring::service::torbrowser_archive`
manifest in [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]] and the corresponding service
configuration template
(`templates/monitoring/service/torbrowser_archive.erb` in the same repo).
It is the place where the corresponding check command class has to be
included.

There are two types of service checks:

## Remotely executed service

Ran on the master to check a remotely hosted service. The exported
resources for the service check need to be collected on the Icinga2
master only. Example: the bits about the
`tails::monitoring::service::http` check in the
`tails::monitoring::master` class in [[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]].

## Locally executed service

It needs to be deployed on every host that will run it. The exported
resources for the service check need to be collected on the master,
satellite and any system it should monitor.
Example: the bits about the `tails::monitoring::service::memory` check
in the `tails::monitoring::{master,satellite,agent}` classes in
[[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]]. Make sure that the `$nodename` and
`$tag` parameters are set when collecting such exported resources.

# Deploy

Once the plugin, check command and service related manifests are
written, it's time to enable the service check. Declare it *as an
exported resource* in the manifest of the node which hosts the service.

Depending on whether the service is locally or remotely executed, the
Puppet clients may need
to be run several times on different systems for the service check
exported resource to be collected and realized correctly.

Once you've verified that the check works fine for one host,
add it (if relevant) to the
`tails::monitoring::config::common_services` class in
[[!tails_gitweb_repo puppet-tails]].
