... including:

[[!toc levels=1]]

Update Changelog
================

        ./release NEW_VERSION PREVIOUS_RELEASED_TAG

example:

        ./release 0.3 0.2

This populates the Changelog with the Git log entries, then launches
an editor for the needed cleanup of the result.

Build images
============

Carefully read the build logs to make sure nothing bad happened.

SquashFS files order
--------------------

Build ISO images, profile them and update `squashfs.order` in the Git
repository. See [[todo/improve_boot_time_on_cd]] for details.

Testing
=======

Until [[todo/automated_tests]] are setup, some minimal, manual testing
has to be done by the person doing the release, in addition to the
real-world tests done by fellow beta-testers:

* iceweasel: is web browsing really torified?
* pidgin: is an IRC session really torified?
* firewall: is the Tor-enforcement effective?
* local partitions: are any local hard-disk partitions mounted or used
  as swap?
* local partitions: is a Live system found on a local hard-disk
  partition used?
* claws: check that the profile works and is torified
  (specifically the EHLO/HELO SMTP messages it sends).
* whisperback: can a bug report e-mail be sent? is it
  correctly encrypted?

Generate the Torrents
=====================

First, create a directory with a suitable name for every image to be
released, such as `amnesia-i386-gnome-0.3-20091126`.

Second, copy the built images to these brand new directories.

Third, generate detached GnuPG signatures for every published image,
in the same directory as the image; e.g.

    gpg --armor --default-key F93E735F --detach-sign *.iso

Fourth, create a `.torrent` file for every directory to be published:

    mktorrent -a \
      'https://www.les-renseignements-genereux.org/tracker/announce,http://z6gw6skubmo2pj43.onion:8080/announce,http://z6gw6skubmo2pj43.tor2web.com:8080/announce' \
      -w <HTTP_FALLBACK_URLS>
      <DIRECTORY>

... replacing `<HTTP_FALLBACK_URLS>` with a comma-separated list of
HTTP fallback download URLs (**FIXME**: explain what these could be).

Fifth, check the generated `.torrent` files metainfo, e.g.
using `btshowmetainfo`, to make sure they don't contain
unwanted information.

Sixth, generate the SHA-256 hash of every generated `.torrent` file:

    sha256sum amnesia-i386-gnome-0.3-20091126.torrent \
        > amnesia-i386-gnome-0.3-20091126.torrent.sha256

Seventh, generate detached GnuPG signatures for every published
`.torrent` file:

    gpg --armor --default-key F93E735F --detach-sign \
        amnesia-i386-gnome-0.3-20091126.torrent

Announce, seed and test the Torrents
====================================

Announce and seed the Torrents using whatever box you can.
A decent, stable and permanent Internet connexion is required.

Test them with a BitTorrent client running in a different place.

Update the website and Git repository
=====================================

Rename the `.packages` file to remove the `.iso` part of its name.

Add the `.packages`, `.torrent`, `.torrent.asc` and `.torrent.sha256`
files to the Git repository's `wiki/src/torrents/files/` directory.

Write the announce for the release in `news/version_X.Y.mdwn`.

Then add the updated `debian/changelog` and you should be ready to
record the last commit before tagging happens:

    git commit -m "releasing version ${NEW_VERSION}"

Tag the release in Git
======================

    git tag -u F93E735F -m "tagging version ${NEW_VERSION}" "${NEW_VERSION}"

Go wild!
========

Push the last commits and the release tag to our Git repository:

    git push --tags
