[[!meta title="Git merge policy: common rules"]]

## Documentation is not optional

When writing Tails code, one commits to adapt the design and end-user
documentations accordingly in a timely manner, writing brand new
chapters if needed.

### Design documentation

As a side note, best is generally to write specification and design
documentation before implementing changes; among other very valid
reasons to do so, it may avoid doing work that won't be applied ever,
or be reverted later, because of a faulty design that was reviewed and
diagnosed only when the implementation was up and running. On the
other hand, we're not great fans of over-engineering and we do know
proceeding like this is not always an option, as the right design
sometimes arises from erratic implementation attempts.

### User documentation

See our [[documentation guidelines|contribute/how/documentation/guidelines]].

Verify that your changes do not affect the rest of the user documentation and
FAQ. If they do, or if in doubt, create an issue to ask our
[[technical writers|contribute/working_together/roles/technical_writer]]
to update the documentation accordingly.

We generally prepare documentation updates in the same branch as the
corresponding code changes, so that both get released together.

Regarding the [[FAQ|support/faq]], don't write new questions in advance but make sure that the
existing ones are still correct.

## Do not break the build... or get reverted

Do not push changes breaking the build into one of our [[main Git
branches|contribute/git#branches]]: `master`, `stable`, `testing`, and `devel`.

If you find the `devel` branch in a non-building state and can
identify the root cause of it to a recent commit, fix it if you wish,
but don't let it disturb you otherwise: just revert the faulty commit
and inform the other developers on [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]] so that the author knows
s/he needs to fix his/her stuff before reapplying it at a later point.

## Coordinate major changes and freeze exceptions with Release Managers

See the coordination guidelines [[for developers with Release
Managers|contribute/working_together/interfaces/developers_and_release_managers]].
