[[!meta title="Releasing Iceweasel + Torbrowser patches"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

1. Prepare environment
======================

* Clone the Tor browser
  [[Git repository|contribute/git#other-repositories]] if you do not
  have it handy yet.

* Add (and fetch from) a Git remote for the Debian iceweasel packaging
  repository:

      git remote add -f debian git://git.debian.org/git/pkg-mozilla/iceweasel.git

* Export the new upstream release to the environment of the one shell
  or three that will be used:

	export VERSION=17.0.9esr

2. Was Iceweasel updated?
=========================

It might have been updated in one of these sources:

* branch `esr/master` in `git://git.debian.org/git/pkg-mozilla/iceweasel.git`
* <http://mozilla.debian.net/pool/iceweasel-esr/i/iceweasel/>

**If** it was updated, then skip to [[New Iceweasel release|iceweasel#new-iceweasel-release]].
**Else**, skip to [[New Firefox release|iceweasel#new-firefox-release]].

<a id="new-firefox-release"></a>

3. New Firefox release
======================

If Iceweasel was not updated to match the new Firefox release we want,
a bit more work is needed.

Note that usually, we're doing these steps (usually on Sunday or
Monday) *before* the new ESR was officially released (which usually
happens on Tuesday). Mozilla make the source available on previous
Friday or Saturday, so that downstreams (such as us!) can get their
stuff ready in time for the security announce.

* Download the Firefox tarball and detached signature from
  <https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/VERSION/source/>
  (`VERSION` is the version we want to build, that is something like
  `17.0.7esr`).
* Check the signature.
* Put the tarball in the parent directory of your Iceweasel Git repository.
* Extract the tarball.
* `cd` into the extracted directory.
* Copy the `debian/` directory from our previous package into the new
  upstream source directory.
* Add a `debian/changelog` entry matching the new
  upstream version. Use 0 for the Debian packaging version, e.g.
  `17.0.5esr-0`, to leave room for the official packaging that we will
  want to merge when it's out:

      dch -v ${VERSION}-0 "New upstream release."

* Download and repack the other tarballs:

      make -f debian/rules download

* `cd` into our Iceweasel Git directory.
* Checkout the `tails/master` branch.
* Unapply all quilt patches and commit:

      quilt pop -a

* Get yourself a new upstream branch:

      git branch -D upstream
      git branch upstream tails/master

* Trick the tarball importer to import the correct version:

      cp ../mozilla-esr24/browser/config/version.txt browser/config/ && \
      cp ../mozilla-esr24/debian/changelog debian/

* Import the new upstream release into the `upstream` branch:

      make -f debian/rules import

* Merge the import commit into `tails/master`:

      git reset --hard && git merge upstream

* Get the `debian` directory back:

      git checkout HEAD^ -- debian && \
      git commit -m 'Get Debian packaging directory back.'

* Cleanup quilt status:

      rm -rf .pc

* Apply all quilt patches:

      quilt push -a

  It might be that the last patch (`configure.patch`) fails. Ignore it
  for now.

* Commit:

      git add . && git reset HEAD .pc && git commit -a -m 'Apply all quilt patches.'

<a id="new-iceweasel-release"></a>

4. New Iceweasel release
=========================

Skip this entire stage if you imported a new Firefox release.

The way to proceed is different depending on whether Debian's
iceweasel was pushed to it yet, or not.

If Debian's iceweasel was pushed to Git already
-----------------------------------------------

* Retrieve the update from the iceweasel Git repository and verify the
  Git tag you want to import, e.g.

      git fetch debian && git tag -v debian/17.0.8esr-1

* Checkout our `tails/master` branch.

* Unapply all Torbrowser patches:
  - If quilt knows they are applied (`quilt applied` will tell you),
    then use `quilt pop` as many times as needed.
  - Else, some manual care is needed so that quilt internal state
    matches the actual state of the source tree. We need to manually
    unapply all quilt patches, then reapply them all:

        for p in $(tac debian/patches/series) ; do
           patch -p1 -R < "debian/patches/$p"
        done && quilt push -a

    ... and then use `quilt pop` as many times as needed to unapply
    all Torbrowser patches.

* `git add` the new files and the modified ones

* `git rm` the deleted files

* Commit:

      git commit -m 'Remove Torbrowser patches.'

* Merge the tag, e.g.

      git merge debian/17.0.8esr-1

* Verify with that `tails/master` is in the same state as Debian's
  iceweasel, e.g.

      git diff --stat debian/17.0.8esr-1..tails/master

  All expected differences should be:
  * files modified: `.gitignore`,
    `debian/{changelog,rules,control,control.in}`,
    `debian/{browser.mozconfig,xulrunner.mozconfig.in}`
  * files added: `.mozconfig*`, `debian/tails.*.mozconfig`,
    `debian/patches/series`, and the Torbrowser patches.

If Debian's iceweasel was not pushed to Git yet
-----------------------------------------------

Then, we have to import the source package into Git ourselves, and
merge from Debian's Vcs-Git later.

* Download, verify and extract the new iceweasel source package with dget.

* Checkout our `tails/master` branch.

* Unapply all quilt patches and commit:

      quilt pop -a

* `git rm` the deleted files

* `git add` the new files and the modified ones

* Commit:

      git commit -m 'Remove all quilt patches.'

* Overwrite the files in the Git checkout with the new ones.
  Assuming the new extracted iceweasel package is in
  `iceweasel-17.0.2esr`, and our iceweasel Git repository checkout is
  in `git`:

      rsync --stats -a --exclude=.git --delete iceweasel-17.0.2esr/ git/

* `git rm` the deleted files

* `git add *`

* Add other added or modified files *but* `.pc`.

* Commit:

      git commit -m "Import $(head -n 1 debian/changelog | sed -e 's,).*,),')"

* Verify with `diff` that the current state of the `tails/master` is
  exactly the same as Debian's iceweasel source package one:

      diff -Naur --exclude=.git iceweasel-17.0.2esr/ git/

* Bring our changes back:
  * files modified: `.gitignore`,
    `debian/{changelog,rules,control,control.in}`,
    `debian/{browser.mozconfig,xulrunner.mozconfig.in}`
  * files added: `.mozconfig*`, `debian/tails.*.mozconfig`,
    `debian/patches/series`, and the Torbrowser patches.

5. Update Torbrowser patches
============================

First, check if the Torbrowser patches were updated since the last
time we imported them (that's why we always record in
`debian/changelog` the TorBrowser Git commit we are importing from).

**If** the Torbrowser patches were not updated, then just apply them
and commit:

    quilt push -a && git commit -a -m 'Apply Torbrowser patches.'

... then skip this entire stage.

**Else**, proceed with the following steps.

* Make sure all quilt patches are applied.
* Unapply all Torbrowser patches: use `quilt pop` as many times as
  needed.
* Revert our changes (with `--no-commit`) to
  `debian/patches/configure.patch` if needed, and deapply it:

      cat debian/patches/configure.patch | patch -p1 --reverse

* `quilt delete` the `configure.patch` if it exists.

* Remove all Torbrowser patches from the series:

      quilt unapplied | grep --color=never '^torbrowser/' | xargs -n 1 quilt delete

* Remove Torbrowser patches from Git:

      git rm -r debian/patches/torbrowser/

* Commit:

      git commit -a -m 'Remove Torbrowser patches.'

* Import the latest TorBrowser patches:

  - Ensure you have Mike Perry's latest stuff available:

          git remote add -f mikeperry https://git.torproject.org/user/mikeperry/tor-browser.git
          git remote add -f ttp https://git.torproject.org/tor-browser.git

  - Find the most recent commit in ttp/tor-browser-24.2.0esr-1
    that is an import from Mozilla (see e.g. 5175d069); save its ID:

          export LAST_MOZILLA_COMMIT=XXX

  - Export the Torbrowser patches:

          TORBROWSER_PATCHES_DIR=$(mktemp -d)
          git format-patch -o "$TORBROWSER_PATCHES_DIR" \
              "$LAST_MOZILLA_COMMIT..ttp/tor-browser-24.2.0esr-1"

  - Remove from $TORBROWSER_PATCHES_DIR the patches we don't want.
    See `debian/changelog` for the - list of patches skipped last
    time, see the TorBrowser Git log to make your opinion about new or
    updated patches, use common sense. Take note of your decisions and
    its rationale, you will need it later.

  - Import the Torbrowser patches:

          for patch in $(\ls --reverse ${TORBROWSER_PATCHES_DIR}/*.patch) ; do
            p=$(basename "$patch")
            quilt import -P "torbrowser/$p" "$patch"
          done
          git add debian/patches/torbrowser debian/patches/series
          TORBROWSER_COMMIT=$(git rev-parse ttp/tor-browser-24.2.0esr-1)
          git commit -m "Import Torbrowser patches at commit ${TORBROWSER_COMMIT}."

* Apply Torbrowser patches:

      quilt push -a && git add . && git reset HEAD .pc && git commit -a -m 'Apply Torbrowser patches.'

* Update `debian/tails.*.mozconfig`:
  - copy all `ac_add_options` lines from `.mozconfig` into the *Tor
    Browser's options* section in `debian/tails.common.mozconfig`,
    *but* the ones that break the xulrunner build, that go into *Tor
    Browser's options specific to the browser component* section in
    `debian/tails.browser.mozconfig` instead
  - review the changes to these settings
  - if needed, update the `debian/tails.common.mozconfig`'s *Override
    Tor Browser's options* section

* Push to Git:

      git push origin tails/master && git push --tags

6. Build packages
=================

Update debian/changelog
-----------------------

* set a version such as `17.0.5esr-0+tails1`, e.g.

      dch -v "${VERSION}-0+tails1"

* list our changes, especially the TorBrowser commit at which the
  patches were imported, and the ones we skipped
* set distribution to unstable
* commit:

      git commit debian/changelog \
          -m "$(head -n 1 debian/changelog | sed -e 's,).*,),')"

Tag the release
---------------

	DEB_VERSION=$(dpkg-parsechangelog -SVersion)
	git tag -s -m "$(head -n 1 debian/changelog | sed -e 's,).*,),')" "debian/${DEB_VERSION}"

Clean up the source tree
------------------------

	git clean -fdx -e /.pc/

Build for unstable
------------------

If you have no available non-Tails setup to comfortably test these
packages, then skip this step.

* Build for unstable and the architecture you can test on (most likely
  amd64), e.g. using our [[contribute/Debian_package_builder]].  
  **Note:** if building locally in a ramdisk, it needs to be at least
  14GB large.
* Copy `browser/app/profile/000-tor-browser.js` into
  `/etc/iceweasel/pref/` on the test system.
* Install and test the resulting packages.

Build for squeeze-backports
---------------------------

* Checkout the `tails/squeeze` branch and merge the tag:

      git checkout tails/squeeze && git merge "debian/${DEB_VERSION}"

* Add a squeeze-backport changelog entry:

      dch --bpo

  Adjust as needed.

* Commit:

      git commit debian/changelog \
          -m "$(head -n 1 debian/changelog | sed -e 's,).*,),')"

* Tag the backport:

      git tag -s -m "$(head -n 1 debian/changelog | sed -e 's,).*,),')" \
          "debian/$(dpkg-parsechangelog -SVersion | sed -e 's,~,_,')"

* Build for squeeze-backports and i386, e.g. using our
  [[contribute/Debian_package_builder]].
* Integrate these debs into your apt-cacher cache. That's one cp to
  `/var/cache/apt-cacher-ng/_import/` away, + 1 click in the
  web interface.
* Test the resulting packages in Tails.
* Make sure the `.orig.*` tarballs are included in the `.changes`
  file. FIXME: check if that's needed, or done automatically by the
  above instructions.
* Upload the resulting packages to the relevant suite of our
  [[contribute/APT repository]].
* Merge this APT suite where you need it: generally, that's `devel`,
  `experimental`, one of `stable` or `testing`, and maybe
  a release tag.
* Push to Git:

      git push origin tails/squeeze && git push --tags

Import bundled preferences
--------------------------

* Copy `browser/app/profile/000-tor-browser.js` from the tag the
  Squeeze backport was built from, into
  `config/chroot_local-includes/etc/iceweasel/pref/`.
* Commit this to the branch that is being used to prepare the release:
  ideally, a topic branch that will be reviewed and merged; in
  practice, more likely this will be `stable` or `testing`.

7. Potential problems (and solutions)
=====================================

Problems with ./configure
-------------------------

E.g. `configure.patch` does not apply, or the build fails since
`{js/src/,}configure.in` was modified but `{js/src/,}configure` was
not refreshed.

In a nutshell, the solution is to:

1. Make sure the patches that modify `{js/src/,}configure.in` are
   applied (this is the case after a `quilt push -a`, that is during
   most of the steps documented above).

1. Update `{js/src/,}configure`:

        sudo apt-get install autoconf2.13
        make -f client.mk configure

   The `make` command may fail due to missing dependencies. We don't
   care, as long as `{js/src/,}configure` have been refreshed.

1. Replace `configure.patch` with the diff between the original and
   updated version of `{js/src/,}configure`:

        configure_diff=$(mktemp) && \
           git diff configure js/src/configure > "$configure_diff" && \
           git reset --hard && \
           git clean -fdx -e /.pc/ && \
           quilt import -f -P configure.patch "$configure_diff" && \
           git commit debian/patches -m "Refresh configure.patch." && \
           quilt push && \
           git commit -a -m 'Apply configure.patch.'

Note that `configure.patch` must always be the *last* patch in the
quilt series file, after the TorBrowser ones.
