[[!meta title="Releasing tor"]]

Note: we're _not_ using Git, as weasel's script do lots of clever
things between the Git tree and the source package. So let's simply
take whatever he has uploaded to Debian and build it against
wheezy-backports, to get seccomp support.

1. Make sure you have Debian unstable APT deb-src sources configured.

2. Make sure you have an up-to-date wheezy-backports i386 pbuider chroot.

3. Download the source package from Debian unstable, extract it, cd
   into the directory:

       WORKDIR=$(mktemp -d)
       cd "$WORKDIR" && \
       apt-get source tor/unstable && \
       cd tor-*

4. Set `$DISTRIBUTION` to the name of the Tails APT suite you'll want
   to upload to, e.g.:

       DISTRIBUTION=feature-tor-custom-build

5. Update `debian/changelog`:

       UNSTABLE_VERSION=$(dpkg-parsechangelog  --count 1 -SVersion)
       WHEEZY_TPO_VERSION="${UNSTABLE_VERSION}~d70.wheezy+1"
       TAILS_VERSION="${WHEEZY_TPO_VERSION}+tails1"
       dch --newversion "$TAILS_VERSION" --force-bad-version  \
           --distribution "$DISTRIBUTION" --force-distribution \
           "Rebuild on wheezy-backports to get seccomp support."
   
   Check the resulting `debian/changelog` entry.

6. Add a build dependency on `linux-libc-dev` >= 3.16 (which is in
   wheezy-backports):

       sed --regexp-extended -i 's/^(Build-Depends:.*)$/\1, linux-libc-dev (>= 3.16)/' debian/control
       dch --append "Build depend on linux-libc-dev (>= 3.16) to fix build error from undefined IP6T_SO_ORIGINAL_DST."

7. Disable systemd support (depends on stuff that is not in Wheezy):

       sed -i -e '/^Build-Depends/ s/, *dh-systemd\( *\[[^]]*\]\)\?//'        \
          debian/control                                                   && \
       dch --append "Remove dh-systemd build dependency for backport."     && \
       sed -i -e '/--with systemd/ d' debian/rules                         && \
       dch --append "Remove --with systemd from debian/rules."             && \
       sed -i -e '/^Build-Depends/ s/, *libsystemd-dev\( *\[[^]]*\]\)\?//'    \
          debian/control                                                   && \
       dch --append "Remove libsystemd-dev build dependency for backport." && \
       sed -i -e '/^Build-Depends/ s/, *pkg-config\( *\[[^]]*\]\)\?//'        \
          debian/control                                                   && \
       dch --append "Remove pkg-config build dependency for backport."     && \
       sed -i -e '/--enable-systemd/ d' debian/rules                       && \
       dch --append "Remove --enable-systemd from debian/rules."

8. Apply `bug15482.patch` like the Tor Browser does to its Tor.
   It lives as `gitian/patches/bug15482.patch` in the
   <https://git.torproject.org/builders/tor-browser-bundle.git> repository.
   Use `quilt import` and then `dch --append`.

8. Build in your wheezy-backports i386 chroot.

9. Tweak the resulting `.changes` file so that it includes the
   upstream tarball:

       changestool *.changes includeallsources

10. Sign the resulting package:

        debsign *.changes

11. Upload the resulting package:

        dupload --to tails *.changes
