[[!meta title="Resetting a USB stick or SD card using Linux"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/reset.intro" raw="yes"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="disks"></a>

Using <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span>
=========================================================

<div class="caution">

<strong>You might overwrite any hard disk on the computer.</strong> If at some
point you are not sure about which device to choose, stop proceeding.

</div>

1.  Make sure that the USB stick or SD card that you want to reset is unplugged.

2.  Choose
    <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span>
    </span>
    to start <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span>.

    A list of all the storage devices on the computer appears in the left pane
    of the window.

3.  Plug the USB stick or SD card that you want to reset.

    A new device appears in the list of storage devices. This new device
    corresponds to the USB stick or SD card that you plugged in. Click on it.

4.  In the right pane of the window, verify that the device corresponds
    to the device that you want to reset, its brand, its size, etc.

5.  Select the partition that is labelled as <span class="guilabel">
    Partition 1: Tails</span> in the right window pane.

6.  To reset the device, click on the icon with the two gear wheels and select
    <span class="guilabel">Format...</span> from the drop-down list.

7.  Keep the default value in the <span class="guilabel">Erase</span> drop-down list.
    You can also choose <span class="guilabel">Overwrite existing data with zeroes</span>
    to ensure that all data will be securely erased. 
    Then choose the default <span class="guilabel">Compatible with all
    systems and devices (FAT)</span> from the <span class="guilabel">Type</span>
    drop-down list. Afterwards click on the <span class="button">Format...</span> button.
    The name can be left empty.

8.  In the confirmation dialog, click on the <span class="button">Format</span>
    button to confirm.

9.  You can now delete the partition by clicking on the minus sign. Confirm by
    clicking on <span class="guilabel">Delete</span> in the pop-up window.

10.  To make sure that all the changes are written to the device, click on the
    eject-button at the top of the window.

Resetting a Tails device from itself
====================================

If Tails is your only Linux system, you can generally reset a Tails USB stick or SD card
directly from that device while running Tails.

1.  When starting Tails, add the <span class="command">toram</span> boot
    option in the <span class="application">boot menu</span>. For detailed
    instructions, see the documentation on [[using the <span
    class="application">boot menu</span>|startup_options#boot_menu]].

2.  If Tails starts as usual, follow the instructions for [[resetting a USB stick or SD card
    using <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span>|linux#disks]].

    **If the system fails to start**, that means that the computer does not have
    enough memory for this operation mode. Try with another computer, or find
    another Linux system, such as another Tails device, to do the reset from.
