[[!meta title="Resetting a USB stick or SD card using Mac OSX"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/reset.intro" raw="yes"]]

<div class="caution">

<p>If you created your device using the [[!traillink
manual_installation|first_steps/installation/manual/mac]], you'll have
to reset your device on Mac OSX El Capitan [[useing the
Terminal|mac#terminal]] first.</p>

</div>

<a id="disk_utility"></a>

Using <span class="application">Disk Utility</span>
===================================================

<div class="caution">

<strong>You might overwrite any hard disk on the computer.</strong> If at some
point you are not sure about which device to choose, stop proceeding.

</div>

1.  Make sure that the USB stick or SD card that you want to reset is unplugged.

2.  Start <span class="application">Disk Utility</span>.

    A list of all the storage devices on the computer appears in the left pane
    of the window.

3.  Plug the USB stick or SD card that you want to reset.

    A new device appears in the list of storage devices. This new device
    corresponds to the USB stick or SD card that you plugged in. Click on it.

4.  In the list of storage devices, verify that the device corresponds
    to the device that you want to reset, its brand, its size, etc.

5.  To reset the device:

    a. If there is an <span class="guilabel">Erase</span> tab
    in the right pane, click on it and then click on the <span class="button">
    Erase</span> button on the bottom right

    b. If there is an <span class="button">
    Erase</span> button on the top middle, click on it.

6.  In the confirmation dialog, click on the <span class="button">Erase</span>
    button to confirm.

<a id="terminal"></a>

Using the <span class="application">Terminal</span>
===================================================

1. Find out the device name of the USB stick and unmount the device.

   The steps are described in point 1 and 2 of the
   [[!traillink manual_install_instructions|first_steps/installation/manual/mac]].

2. Reset the device using the fdisk command:

       sudo fdisk -iy /dev/disk2

3. Follow the instructions above to reset the device.
