[[!meta title="About Tails amnesia"]]

# <a name="why_notrace"></a>Why do you need to prevent traces to be kept?

A lot of traces of your activities are left on your computer's hard
disk. Such traces can easily be gathered by anyone with a bit of
computer knowledge when no special measure is taken to prevent this
(the only serious one being full disk encryption).

Again, if you do mind this fact, Tails might be just what you need.


# <a name="how_amnesia"></a>How does Tails provide with amnesia?

**FIXME**: duplicated section pasted from [[doc/about]] (Use anywhere but leave
no trace): this and the [[about]] page are duplicated information. Merge or
inline the [[about]] page (whithout what's next) here?

Using Tails on a computer doesn't alter or depend on the operating system
installed on it. So you can use it in the same way on yours, the computer of a
friend or one at your local library. After removing your Tails CD or USB stick
the computer can start again on its usual operating system.

Tails is configured with a special care to not use the computer's hard-disks,
even if there is some swap space on it. The only storage space used by Tails is
the RAM memory, which is automatically erased when the computer shuts down. So
you won't leave any trace neither of the Tails system nor of what you did on
the computer. That's why we call it "amnesic".

This allows you to work on sensitive documents on any computer and protect you
from data recovery after shutdown. Of course, you can still explicitly save
some documents to another USB or external hard-disk and take them aways for
future use.

**FIXME**: end of pasted part

**FIXME**: start of translation from French.

However, there are some limitations:

- if the computer you are using is powered off brutally (e.g. power supply cut,
  power cable or battery unplugged, poweroff by pressing power button, …) RAM
  won't be cleared immediatly on shutdown. It will be possible to achieve a cold
  boot attack (**FIXME**: add a link) for several minutes to several hours
  (depending on the RAM model and the temperature) which would enable an
  attacker to recover everything that have been achieved during the session,
  from typed texts to saved files, including password and encryption keys.
- information saved on external devices are *not* protected by default: if they
  are sensitive, they should be encrypted using specific tools (e.g. GnuPG) or
  saved on encrypted device (e.g. using LUKS through palimpsest). These tools
  are included in Tails, it's then up to you to learn using them. It is also
  likely that the files you may create using Tails will keep tracks that they
  were created using this operating system.
- if you need to access your local hard drive(s) form Tails, please stay careful
  about the exchanges to render possible.
- to end with you might be tempted to use Tails as an host inside a
  virtualisation software (e.g. VirtualBox or QEMU). Be warned that both the
  host operating system and the virtualization software will be able to monitor
  what you are doing in Tails. Moreover traces are likely to be left on the
  local hard disk. Please see [[support/virtualization]] for more information.

**FIXME**: end of translation from French.

