[[!meta title="Contact"]]

There are many ways to contact us, depending on the subject you want
to talk about.

Subscribe to mailing-lists
==========================

Those lists are public, subscription is open to anyone. Don't send
compromising information to them. Please respect the
[[code of conduct|contribute/working_together/code_of_conduct/]] when
interracting in Tails spaces.

tails-support
-------------

[[tails-support|support/tails-support]] is the public mailing-list
dedicated to Tails users support. Subscribe if you have questions or
if you want to help by answering others :)

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-support">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

amnesia-news
------------

You can subscribe to amnesia-news to receive some [[news]] by
email. We don't write often, but it allows you to stay up-to-date with
the releases and security announcements.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/amnesia-news">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

tails-project
-------------

tails-project is the public mailing-list where we discuss the upcoming
events, the reports, and other non-technical matters.

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-project">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

tails-dev
---------

tails-dev is public mailing-list where the developement work is
coordinated and technical design questions discussed. Please subscribe
if you want to [[contribute code|contribute/how/code]].

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-dev">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

tails-testers
-------------

You can subscribe to tails-testers if you want to contribute by
[[testing Tails|contribute/how/testing]].

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-testers">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

tails-ux
--------

You can subscribe or write to tails-ux for matters related to
[[user experience and user interface|contribute/how/user_interface]].

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-ux">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

tails-l10n
----------

You can subscribe or write to tails-l10n for matters related to
[[translation|contribute/how/translate]].

<form method="POST" action="https://mailman.boum.org/subscribe/tails-l10n">
	<input class="text" name="email" value=""/>
	<input class="button" type="submit" value="Subscribe"/>
</form>

Contact
=======

tails-support-private
---------------------

You can write encrypted emails to <tails-support-private@boum.org> if
you need help that requires you to send compromising information. See
the [[OpenPGP key|doc/about/openpgp_keys#support]].

tails-press
-----------

If you're a journalist wanting to write about Tails, or if you want to
send us links to [[press articles|press]] about Tails, please write to
<tails-press@boum.org>.

tails-fundraising
-----------------

If you want to fund Tails please write to
<tails-fundraising@boum.org>.

tails-sysadmins
---------------

To talk about our infrastructure (servers, test suite, repositories,
mirrors...) please write to <tails-sysadmins@boum.org>.

tails
-----

For matters that are listed in none of the above and for
vulnerabilities disclosures, you can write encrypted emails to
<tails@boum.org>. See the
[[OpenPGP key|doc/about/openpgp_keys#index1h1]].

IRC
===

You can join our [[#tails|support/chat]] and
[[#tails-dev|contribute/chat]] chatrooms ; note: only a few Tails core
developers hang out there, so email is preferred for anything that
might be of interest for the larger Tails development community.
