[[!meta title="Manual installation using Mac"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/manual_usb_installation.intro" raw="yes"]]

This technique uses the command line.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h2 class="bullet-number-one">Find out the device name of the USB stick</h2>

The device name should be something like `/dev/disk8`, `/dev/disk9`, etc.

If you are not sure about the exact device name, do the following:

  1. Unplug the USB stick.
  1. Open <span class="application">Terminal</span> from
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal.app</span>
     </span>
  1. Execute the following command:

         diskutil list

     This returns a list of all the current storage devices. For example:

<pre>
$ diskutil list
/dev/disk0
    #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
    0:      GUID_partition_scheme                     *500.1 GB   disk0
    1:                        EFI                      209.7 MB   disk0s1
    2:                  Apple_HFS MacDrive             250.0 GB   disk0s2
    3:                        EFI                      134.1 GB   disk0s3
    4:       Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP             115.5 GB   disk0s4
</pre>

  1. Plug back the USB stick and run the same command as before:

         diskutil list

     A new device should appear in the list of storage devices. Check
     that the size of the device corresponds to the size of your USB
     stick.

<pre>
$ diskutil list
/dev/disk0
   #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
   0:      GUID_partition_scheme                     *500.1 GB   disk0
   1:                        EFI                      209.7 MB   disk0s1
   2:                  Apple_HFS MacDrive             250.0 GB   disk0s2
   3:                        EFI                      134.1 GB   disk0s3
   4:       Microsoft Basic Data BOOTCAMP             115.5 GB   disk0s4
/dev/disk1
   #:                       TYPE NAME                 SIZE       IDENTIFIER
   0:     FDisk_partition_scheme                     *4.0 GB     disk1
   1:                  Apple_HFS Untitled 1           4.0 GB     disk1s1
</pre>

In this example, the USB stick is 4.0 GB and the device name is `/dev/disk1`.
Yours are probably different.

<div class="caution">

If you are not sure about the device name you should stop proceeding or
<strong>you risk overwriting any hard disk on the system</strong>.

</div>

<h2 class="bullet-number-two">Unmount the USB stick</h2>

Execute the following command, replacing `[device]`
with the device name found in step 1.

     diskutil unmountDisk [device]

<h2 class="bullet-number-three">Run isohybrid.pl on the ISO image</h2>

You need to modify the ISO image using `isohybrid` before copying it onto
the USB stick.

1. Download [syslinux](https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/boot/syslinux/4.xx/syslinux-4.02.tar.gz).
1. Double click on the package to extract it.
1. Copy `isohybrid.pl` from the `/utils` folder to the desktop.
1. Copy the ISO image (for example `tails-i386-0.17.1.iso`) to the desktop.
1. To change directory into the desktop, execute:

       cd Desktop

1. To run `isohybrid.pl` on the ISO image, execute the following command,
   replacing `[tails.iso]` with the path to the ISO image that you want to
   install.

       perl isohybrid.pl [tails.iso]

   Here is an example of the commands to execute, yours are probably different:

       perl isohybrid.pl tails-i386-0.17.1.iso

<div class="tip">

If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a
<span class="guilabel">No such
file or directory</span> error, you can first type `perl isohybrid.pl`, followed by a space, and
then drag and drop the icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto
<span class="application">
Terminal</span>. This should insert the correct path to the ISO image in
<span class="application">Terminal</span>.
Then complete the command and execute it.

</div>

<h2 class="bullet-number-four">Do the copy</h2>

Execute the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` by the path to the ISO
image that you want to copy and `[device]` by the device name found in step
1.

    dd if=[tails.iso] of=[device]

You should get something like this:

    dd if=tails-0.17.1.iso of=/dev/disk9

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the USB
stick. The whole process might take some time, generally a few minutes.

<div class="tip">

If you get a "Permission denied" error, try executing the command with
<code>sudo</code>:

<pre>sudo dd if=[tails.iso] of=[device]</pre>

Be careful, if the device name is wrong you might overwriting any hard disk on
the system.

</div>

<p>The installation is complete when the command prompt reappears.</p>

<h2 class="bullet-number-five">Start Tails</h2>

<div class="next">

<p>After the installation completes, follow the instructions to [[start Tails on
Mac|first_steps/start_tails#usb-mac]].</p>

</div>

Notes
=====

This method was successfully tested on the following hardware:

  - MacBook Pro Model A1150 with OS X 10.6.8, 2006
  - MacBook Pro Retina 15" Mid-2012 (aka MacBookPro10,1)

The method worked on some hardware but a bug in the video support
prevented Tails to start successfully:

  - MacBook Pro Retina with OS X 10.8.3, December 2012
  - Macbook Pro model A1150

Note that Tails developers are in general not very knowledgeable about
Mac. Any additional information is welcome.

<!--
An alternative method was suggested:

1. Open Disk Utility
1. Find The Drive
1. Format Tab
1. Source is ISO File
1. Destination is USB Drive
-->
