[[!meta title="Installing Tails on a USB stick from Linux"]]

[[!meta stylesheet="bootstrap" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/assistant" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/dave" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/steps" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta stylesheet="inc/stylesheets/linux" rel="stylesheet" title=""]]
[[!meta script="install/inc/js/dave"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/tails-installation-assistant.inline" raw="yes"]]

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/os-linux.png link="no"]]</div>

<p class="start">Start in Linux.</p>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/download.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_intermediary_intro.inline" raw="yes"]]

1. Install <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span>.

   - If you are using the GNOME desktop environment, <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> should be
     installed by default.

   - Otherwise, install the <span class="code">gnome-disk-utility</span> package using the
     usual installation method for your Linux distribution.

1. Start <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> (also called <span class="application">Disks</span>).

   For example, you can choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span></span>.

   [[!img install/inc/icons/gnome-disks.png link="no"]]

   <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/plug-first-usb.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Plug the first USB stick in the computer.

   A new drive appears in the left pane. Click on it.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_drive.png class="screenshot" link="no"]]

   <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/install-intermediary-tails.png link="no"]]</div>

1. Click on the [[!img lib/emblem-system.png alt="System" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button in the titlebar and choose <span class="guimenuitem">Restore Disk Image&hellip;</span>.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_system.png class="screenshot" link="no"]]

   <div class="bug">

   <p>If your version of <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> is old
   and has no [[!img lib/emblem-system.png alt="System" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button, you have to [[!toggle id="dd" text="install an intermediary Tails
   using the command line"]].</p>

   </div>

   [[!toggleable id="dd" text="""

   Install an intermediary Tails using the command line
   ----------------------------------------------------

   1. Take note of the *device name* of the first USB stick as displayed in the
      right pane. The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`,
      `/dev/sdc`, etc.

   <div class="caution">

   <p>If you are not sure about the device name, you should stop proceeding or
   you risk overwriting any hard disk on the computer.</p>

   </div>

   1. Open a terminal.

   1. Execute the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` with the path to the
      ISO image that you want to install and `[device]` with the device name
      found in step 1.

          dd if=[tails.iso] of=[device] bs=16M && sync

      Here is an example of command to execute, yours is probably different:

          dd if='/home/amnesia/tails-2.0.iso' of=/dev/sdc bs=16M && sync

   <div class="tip">

   <p>If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a <span
   class="guilabel">No such file or directory</span> error message, you can
   first type <code>dd</code>, followed by a space, and then drag and drop the
   icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto the terminal. Doing so should
   insert the correct path to the ISO image in the terminal.  Then complete the
   command and execute it.</p>

   </div>

   1. If no error message is returned, Tails is being install on the USB stick.
      The installation takes a few minutes.

   You can now continue with the next step and [[Open these instructions on
   another device|usb#intermediary]].

   """]]

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Restore Disk Image</span> dialog, click on the file selector button and
   choose the ISO image that you downloaded earlier.

1. Click on the <span class="button">Start Restoring&hellip;</span> button.

1. In the confirmation dialog click <span class="button">Restore</span>.
   The installation takes a few minutes.

1. After the installation is finished, click on the
   [[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_intermediary_outro.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/switch.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_first_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/install_final.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/restart_second_time.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/you_are_done.inline" raw="yes"]]

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence.inline" raw="yes"]]
