[[!meta title="Building a Tails image"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

Git repository and branches
===========================

You will need to clone the Tails Git repository, and to checkout the
branch that you want to build. This branch should be based on `stable`
or `devel` (most likely, _not_ `master`): learn
more about [[our Git branches layout|contribute/git#main-repo]].

<a id="vagrant"></a>

Using Vagrant
=============

Tails can be built easily in a virtual machine using [Rake], [Vagrant]
and [vagrant-libvirt]. The process requires the
[[!wikipedia Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine desc="KVM"]] virtual machine
hypervisor to be available, a minimum of 768 MiB of free memory and a
maximum of 20 GB of free storage.

[Rake]: http://rake.rubyforge.org/
[Vagrant]: http://vagrantup.com/
[vagrant-libvirt]: https://github.com/vagrant-libvirt/vagrant-libvirt/

For details how Vagrant is setup, see its
[[design page|build/vagrant-setup]].

## Installing the dependencies in Debian

You must run at least Debian 9 (Stretch), and follow these steps:

    sudo apt install \
        git \
        rake \
        libvirt-daemon-system \
        dnsmasq-base \
        ebtables \
        qemu-system-x86 \
        qemu-utils \
        vagrant \
        vagrant-libvirt \
        vmdebootstrap
    sudo systemctl restart libvirtd

Make sure that the user that is supposed to initiate the build command
is part of the `kvm`, `libvirt` and `libvirt-qemu` groups:

    for group in kvm libvirt libvirt-qemu; do sudo adduser $USER $group; done

Then reboot the system (alternatively, if you know what you are doing,
run `newgrp` and reload the `kvm` module(s)).

<a id="vagrant-known-issues"></a>

## Known issues and workarounds

* If Vagrant failed to start the Tails builder VM the first time
  (e.g. because of permission issues or the `kvm` module not veing
  loaded) it will not automatically run the provisioning script, so
  you must run `rake vm:provision` yourself before attempting your
  first `rake build`. If that fails, run `rake vm:destroy`, which
  removes this half-broken VM, and then start from scratch with `rake
  build` or similar.

* `ruby-fog-libvirt <= 0.0.3` has a
  [bug](https://github.com/fog/fog-libvirt/issues/21) that will make
  Vagrant crash when trying to start the VM if you have any libvirt
  domain defined with a floppy (`fd`) as part of the boot order, set
  via `<os>` tag; please remove all such occurrences! If you really
  need to have a floppy as part of some domain's boot order, please
  set it via `<disk>` by adding `<boot order='1'/>` which does not
  trigger the bug.

* If the system you are setting this up on ever had the old
  (Virtualbox-based) Vagrant setup, you will get errors unless you
  clean up these parts:

  - Remove any old pinnings for `vagrant` and `ruby-net-ssh`. If you
    followed our old instructions to the point, that should be:

        sudo rm /etc/apt/preferences.d/tails-build-vagrant

  - Clearing the Vagrant configuration seems to also often solve
    issues:

        rm -r ~/.vagrant.d

* If Vagrant fails to start the Tails builder VM with an error similar
  to `Virtio-9p Failed to initialize fs-driver with id:fsdev-fs0`,
  see [[!tails_ticket 11411]].

## Building Tails using Vagrant

Once all dependencies are installed, get the Tails sources and
checkout the development branch:

    git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails
    cd tails
    git checkout devel

Build Tails using Vagrant:

    rake build

The first time, this can take a little while to download the base virtual
machine from Tails mirror (around 300 MB). It will then boot the machine,
set it up and start the build process. When done, several `tails-*` files
should appear in the current directory.

After you are done working on Tails, do not forget to shut the virtual
machine down:

    rake vm:halt

One may also want to [[contribute/customize]] their image before building.

To know all available Rake tasks, please run `rake -T`.

Local HTTP proxy
----------------

If you have a local HTTP proxy, the build system will use it as long as
you properly set the `http_proxy` environment variable. The easiest way to
do so is to run:

    http_proxy=http://proxy.lan:3142

... and then, pass the `extproxy` build option (see below).

This needs to be done before any other operations.

<div class="bug">

At least one step of the build does not honor the external proxy
settings, so outgoing Internet connections from the build VM must be
allowed to go through anyway.

</div>

Resulting ISO handling
----------------------

To tell the build system in which directory the resulting ISO should be
stored, use:

    ARTIFACTS='/path/to/directory'


Build options
-------------

Options regarding the build process can be set using the
`TAILS_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable. Multiple options must be
separated by whitespaces.

The following options are available:

### Memory build settings

Tails builds way faster when everything is done in memory. If your computer
runs Linux and happens to have more than 7 GB of free memory before you
start the virtual machine, it will automatically switch to 'build in RAM'
mode.

To force a specific behaviour please set:

 * **ram**: start the virtual machine with 7 GB of memory, build Tails
   inside a `tmpfs`. Build fails if the system is not in a proper state to
   do so.
 * **noram**: start the virtual machine with 512 MB of memory if not already
   done, build Tails using the virtual machine hard disk.

### HTTP proxy settings

Building Tails requires downloading a little bit more than 1 GB of Debian
packages. To preserve bandwidth and developer sanity, using a HTTP proxy is
nearly a must. Tails virtual machine contains a fully configured local HTTP
proxy that will be used if no other local proxy is defined.

The following flags can be used to force a specific behaviour:

 * **extproxy**: use the proxy configured through the `http_proxy`
   environment variable. Fail if it is not set.
 * **vmproxy**: use the local proxy configured in the virtual machine even
   if a local HTTP proxy is set.
 * **noproxy**: do not use any HTTP proxy.

### Network settings

 * **offline**: This option will make the build system do its best to
   not depend on the network, e.g. if you use the VM's caching proxy
   if will *only* use cached APT lists and packages. Use this when you
   do not have an Internet connection.

### SquashFS compression settings

One of the most expensive operations when building Tails is the creation
of the final SquashFS. It also depends on the compression algorithm used.
When working on the `stable` or `testing` branch, the image will be made
using the slow but efficient default. Any other setup will switch to the
faster *gzip*.

Forcing a specific behaviour can be done using:

 * **gzipcomp**: always use *gzip* to create the SquashFS.
 * **defaultcomp**: always use the default compression algorithm.

### Virtual CPUs settings

The number and type of virtual CPUs that are allocated in the virtual
machine can be customized through:

 * **cpus=_n_**: allocate _n_ CPUs to the virtual machine.
   Obviously you should not allocate more virtual CPUs than the number
   of cores available to the host system. When using Linux, the number
   of CPUs allocated will default to be the same as the host system.

 * **cpumodel=_model_**: type of the CPUs allocated to the virtual
   machine. See
   [the corresponding libvirt documentation](https://libvirt.org/formatdomain.html#elementsCPU).

 * **machinetype=_type_**: type of the QEMU machine; see the output of
   `qemu-system-x86_64 -machine help` for available options.

### Git settings

The build system can only work on files that have been *committed* to the Git
repository. By default, it will refuse to start a build in presence of
uncommitted changes. This behaviour can be controlled by:

 * **ignorechanges**: allow to make a build that will ignore changes in the Git
   repository.

### Other variations useful for testing build reproducibility

An offset can be applied to the current date in the virtual machine
through:

 * **dateoffset=_+n_**, **dateoffset=_-n_**: change the virtual
   machine system time by _+n_ or _-n_ days.

### Developer convenience settings

 * **keeprunning**: do not clean up the builder VM on build
   success. The wiki will be cached for subsequent builds with this
   option set.

 * **forcecleanup**: ensure a new builder VM is used for `rake build`,
   and also clean up this VM after the build, no matter if it
   succeeded or not.

 * **rescue**: implies **keeprunning** and will also not clean up the
   build directory, which is useful for investigating build failures.

### Jenkins

  * **mergebasebranch**: if building from a branch (not tag!) this
    forces a merge of the base branch before the build process starts
    for real. This is mostly meant for our Jenkins deployment, so use
    at your own risk.

### Example

The fastest build you could pretend to get can be done by setting:

    export TAILS_BUILD_OPTIONS="ram extproxy gzipcomp"

This will force the build to happen in RAM, and will use use an HTTP proxy
external to the virtual machine, and SquashFS compression will be done
using *gzip*.

<a id="manual"></a>

Building manually
=================

<div class="note">
This section may not be in tested and working shape as all active
developers use Vagrant.
</div>


In order to build Tails manually, you need a running Debian Jessie
system and some [backports](http://backports.debian.org/). Anything
else will fail.

Dependencies
------------

The following Debian packages need to be installed:

* our `live-build` 2.x package, adapted for Wheezy and later. Its version is
  something like *3.0.5+really+is+2.0.12-0.tails2*. One can install it
  from:

      deb http://deb.tails.boum.org/ builder-jessie main

  This APT repository's signing key can be found:

  - in our Git tree (that you have cloned already, right?):
    `config/chroot_sources/tails.chroot.gpg`
  - at <http://deb.tails.boum.org/key.asc>
  - on the keyservers.

  It is certified by the
  [[Tails signing key|doc/about/openpgp_keys#signing]], and its
  fingerprint is:

      221F 9A3C 6FA3 E09E 182E  060B C798 8EA7 A358 D82E

  You should pin that repository, so that live-build isn't upgraded to
  the version of jessie.

      #/etc/apt/preferences.d/00-builder-jessie-pinning
      Package: *
      Pin: release o=Debian,a=stable
      Pin-Priority: 700

      Package: *
      Pin: origin deb.tails.boum.org
      Pin-Priority: 800


  Then install these dependencies from Jessie:

      apt install \
        dpkg-dev \
        gettext \
        intltool \
        libfile-slurp-perl \
        liblist-moreutils-perl \
        libyaml-libyaml-perl \
        libyaml-perl \
        libyaml-syck-perl \
        perlmagick \
        po4a \
        syslinux-utils \
        time \
        whois

  And install these dependencies from jessie-backports (please verify
  manually that the following command actually does install the
  expected versions):

      apt install \
        debootstrap/jessie-backports \
        ikiwiki/jessie-backports

Configure live-build
--------------------

Remove any line matching `/^\[[:space:]]*LB.*MIRROR.*=/` in
`/etc/live/build.conf`.

Build process
-------------

Every build command must be run as `root`, at the root of a clone of the
[[`tails` repository|git]]. A local HTTP proxy is required.

In short, a build shall be done using:

    lb clean --all && lb config --apt-http-proxy http://localhost:3142 && lb build

Running `lb config` or `lb build` in an environment that wasn't full
cleaned first is not supported.

### Customize the build process if needed

If you need to set custom build settings that are specific to your
local environment, such as a custom Debian mirror or APT proxy, you
probably want to configure live-build a bit.

The most common customizations are documented on this wiki:

* to avoid compressing the SquashFS using XZ (efficient, but very
  slow), `export MKSQUASHFS_OPTIONS='-comp gzip'` in your
  build environment;
* to avoid downloading lots of Debian packages during every build, you
  can use [[!debpts apt-cacher-ng]]; however, the build system
  constantly switches APT sources for our
  [[APT repositories|contribute/APT_repository]], so some custom
  configuration is needed to make `apt-cacher-ng` useful: see the
  bits about `apt-cacher-ng` in
  [[!tails_gitweb vagrant/provision/assets/build-tails]].

More documentation about this can be found in the [Debian Live
Manual](http://live.debian.net/manual-2.x/html/live-manual.en.html).

More information
================

More documentation about the build process can be found in the [Debian
Live Manual](http://live.debian.net/manual/oldstable/html/live-manual.en.html).

Related pages
=============

[[!map pages="contribute/build/*"]]
