[[!meta title="FAQ for contributors"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Why don't you do XYZ in Tails?
==============================

Most of the times we are asked such a question, the answer is
"actually, we do, or we will, see our plans on this page on the wiki".
So, before asking this question, please be kind enough to use our
website search functionality to look for XYZ :)

Why doesn't Tails ship software XYZ?
====================================

First of all, please ask yourself, seriously, why should Tails ship
software XYZ.

There are many, many possible reasons why Tails does not ship software
XYZ.

0. It may have licensing issues that prohibit us from shipping it (or
   shipping modified versions of it, which is just as bad).
0. It may not be part of Debian stable, or even part of Debian, or
   even packaged for Debian.
0. It may be in conflict with our [[specification|contribute/design]],
   or it may satisfy use cases Tails is not supposed to support.
0. It may have privacy or anonymity issues. Was it ever audited in
   this context?

Also, generally we try not to add too much software into Tails,
and are very careful before adding more stuff:

* More software implies more security issues.
* We do care about backward compatibility. Removing a software package
  is problematic, even if it should be removed due to e.g. security
  concerns, since users may have come to rely on it. In these cases we
  really want to provide them with suitable alternatives.
* Tails ISO image size matters.

To end with, it might be that we simply have not thought of software
XYZ yet. Reading our [[design document|contribute/design]] may help
you understand which use cases Tails covers and hence which types of
software we may consider. If you feel that XYZ would fill up an empty
space, please [[!tails_redmine "" desc="suggest it to us"]] and give valid
points for its inclusion.

Why isn't Tails based on system XYZ?
====================================

0. [Why there are so many Debian derivatives](http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2011/09/why_there_are_so_many_debian_derivatives/), by Stefano Zacchiroli
0. We are deeply rooted and involved in Debian. The friendships,
   relationships, bonds, technical expertise we have there have many
   benefits for Tails, and we are not ready to build the same in the
   Ubuntu / OpenBSD / whatever world. See our statement about our
   [[contribute/relationship_with_upstream]] for details.
0. What benefit would it bring to us and/or to Tails users if Tails
   was based on system XYZ?
0. Is system XYZ really fit for Live systems?
0. Does system XYZ give to us, the developers, the same facilities as
   Debian does?

See other reasons below that are specific to Ubuntu.

Why isn't Tails based on Ubuntu?
================================

See other reasons above that are not specific to Ubuntu.

Generic answers
---------------

0. Ubuntu is based on Debian. Tails is based on Debian. Both have good
   reasons to do so.
0. Ubuntu is too fast-moving as a development platform for us. Yes,
   there is LTS, but then a lot of what might make the balance weight
   more on Ubuntu's side is not relevant anymore.
0. Ubuntu adds "features" in ways we find dangerous for privacy;
   Ubuntu One and the [Amazon ads and data
   leaks](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2012/10/privacy-ubuntu-1210-amazon-ads-and-data-leaks)
   might be isolated examples, but we don't want to play
   this game of "let's see what kind of shiny'n'ugly new stuff we have to
   disable in this brand new release".
0. Ubuntu is led by a company that makes most of the important
   decisions and has the power to make them happen. Call it a
   simplification if you want.

Isn't Ubuntu more user-friendly?
--------------------------------

At first glance Ubuntu may seem easier to install to hard-disk and to
administrate. However, this is irrelevant since Tails end-users
neither install Tails on hard-disk, nor administrate it. So from a
Tails end-user's perspective, Tails is mostly the same as any other
GNOME desktop.

Doesn't Ubuntu support more recent hardware?
--------------------------------------------

First, this is not that obvious if you compare things that can be
compared, i.e. Ubuntu LTS and Debian stable (see the "too fast a
development platform" answer above). Anyway, as a Debian derivative,
we are free to pick more recent stuff from backports and from Debian
testing/unstable, and we do when we find it sensible: e.g. Tails 0.10
and later ship Linux 3.1 or newer and a backported X.Org stack.
Our intent is to go on shipping recent kernels and video drivers for
better hardware support.

Second, Ubuntu sometimes ships bleeding edge pre-alpha drivers that
pretend to have some new hardware pieces working; Launchpad is full of
comments from users who get their hardware half-working due to these
drivers. We're not convinced making such decisions brings real
improvements to users.

Isn't Ubuntu more secure?
-------------------------

Yes and no. Sure, Ubuntu has some well-advertized security features
Debian does not (see below). On the other hand, the general quality of
the maintenance work being done on packages matters from a security
perspective: Debian maintainers generally are experts in the fields
their packages deal with and Ubuntu maintainers are not that often;
hence, we think it makes sense to rely, as far as security is
concerned, on the software Debian maintainers have considered to be
fit for a stable Debian release, rather than on software that came as
a snapshot of Debian testing/unstable at a given point of time.

*Ubuntu ships the AppArmor Mandatory Access Control system.*
**Answer**: right. We [[!tails_todo Mandatory_Access_Control desc="would like"]] to
get something similar into Tails: that's why we have done a great part
of the work that was needed to add basic AppArmor support in Debian
Wheezy. But don't misread the press releases: AppArmor is enabled for
very few applications in Ubuntu.

*Ubuntu uses compiler hardening options by default.* **Answers**:
right. Ubuntu makes a point here, but this is quite temporary: Debian
Wheezy ships with many packages compiled with hardening options
too. On the other hand, such options are not the security Grail: while
they put the bar a bit higher for the attacker, there are known ways
to workaround them and exploit the so-called protected binaries
anyway. Given the tendency is that more and more distribution vendors
enable those options, it seems safe to bet serious attackers take this
into account, and design their exploits accordingly.
