[[!meta title="Git repositories"]]

<div id="intro">

<p>Tails and its website are developed in numerous Git repositories.</p>

<p><span class="application">Git</span> is a distributed version control
system. It allows several people to work on the same source code and
handle changes in a distributed and efficient way.</p>

</div>

[[!toc levels=3]]

<a id="learn_Git"></a>

Learn Git
=========

<p>To learn more about <span class="application">Git</span>, refer to
its <a href="http://git-scm.com/">homepage</a>, and <a
href="http://git-scm.com/documentation">official documentation</a>.</p>

Here are a couple of links to get started with Git:

- An [interactive introduction](https://try.github.io/) to Git
- [Git basics](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorial/git-basics), by Atlassian
- [Git immersion](http://gitimmersion.com/), a step-by-step introduction
- Pro Git: [online](http://git-scm.com/book),
  [PDF](https://github.s3.amazonaws.com/media/progit.en.pdf), a book on Git from
  basic to advanced usage. This book is available in several languages. Among others:
  [German](http://git-scm.com/book/de), [French](http://git-scm.com/book/fr), [Português](http://git-scm.com/book/pt-br) (Brasil)
- [OpenHatch Missions: Using Git](https://openhatch.org/missions/git), concrete
  exercises to train yourself in using Git.
- [Git For Ages 4 And
  Up](http://mirror.linux.org.au/linux.conf.au/2013/mp4/Git_For_Ages_4_And_Up.mp4),
  a video on learning Git.

<a id="general-information"></a>

General information
===================

<a id="immerda"></a>

Git hosting setup at immerda
----------------------------

Documentation for our Git hosting setup at immerda:

* [main documentation](https://wiki.immerda.ch/index.php/GitRepositoriesImmerda)
* [SSL and SSH fingerprints](https://www.immerda.ch/infos/certs.html)

Merge policy
------------

See our [[contribute/merge_policy]].

Caution!
--------

If you intend to prepare Tails releases, you'll need to make
the development team signing key the default one for Git tags:

	git config user.signingkey A490D0F4D311A4153E2BB7CADBB802B258ACD84F

Repositories
============

<a id="main-repo"></a>

Main repository
---------------

This repository contains the Tails source code and the source of the website.

Anyone can check it out like this:

	git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	torsocks git clone gitolite@d53ykjpeekuikgoq.onion:tails

And then, in any case, in your new Git clone's directory:

	git submodule update --init

For more information about our usage of Git submodules, see
[[the dedicated section|git#submodules]].

We have a [web interface](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/)
available for the main repository.

### Configuration

Developers with write access to the repositories should:

	git config --global url.tails@git.tails.boum.org:.insteadOf \
	   https://git-tails.immerda.ch/

<a id="branches"></a>

### Branches

Tails development uses several branches modeled a bit like the
Debian development process. Here they are.

<a id="master_branch"></a>

#### master

The `master` branch is mostly used to build the website. It is
merged into `devel` and `stable` from time to time.
We merge into `master`:

- [[Documentation improvements|contribute/how/documentation]] that
  affect current Tails (e.g. not the next Tails release).
- Other changes to the website ([[news]], [[security advisories|security/]], layout, and so on).
- [[Translations|contribute/how/translate#website]] of the website.
- When [[releasing a new Tails|contribute/release_process/]], the branch
  the release was built from (`stable` or `testing`).

#### stable

The `stable` branch is intended to contain:

- the state of the code tagged for the last stable release
- fixes for security or important bugs.

Its purpose is to prepare bugfix releases.

#### testing

The `testing` branch is used to prepare an imminent major release: at some
point of the development process, the `devel` branch code is merged
into `testing`, frozen, and endures careful testing and bug-fixing
until this branch is considered good enough to become a stable
release. The `testing` branch is then merged into the `stable` and
`master` ones, images built and shipped and we go back to code shiny
new stuff in the `devel` branch.

Please note that the `testing` branch generally has not been granted
the same testing and attention as code that has made it into a
stable release: please use it for testing purposes but do not rely
on it for anything. No guarantee, blablabla.

#### devel

Most of the development work that is done in Tails, is done in the
`devel` branch. This branch will never get released; instead, code
from it will be merged into testing and then into a real release.

Please note that the `devel` branch can be broken, have awful security
problems and so on. No guarantee, blablabla.

The `master` branch is merged into `devel` from time to time.

#### Topic branches

We use topic branches called `bugfix/*` and
`feature/*`, respectively aimed at fixing a single bug and
implementing a single new feature. Once ready, a topic branch is
merged (with `--no-ff`) into the appropriate branch (generally
`devel`). Until it has been merged, a topic branch's history may be
rewritten, e.g. it may be rebased on top of `devel`.

Unless there are good reasons to do otherwise, bugfix branches must be
forked off the latest stable release tag, while feature branches
should be forked off the devel branch.

If you intend to work on a branch not really meant to be proposed to a
merge at first, like an experimenting branch that you still want to push
to share with other developers, you can prefix its name by the keyword
`wip/`.  It will make it clear to everyone that this branch shouldn't be
merged before being renamed, and our Jenkins instance will not build nor
test it, so you won't get notifications for a branch that you know is
breaking the build and/or the test suite.

<a id="promotion-material"></a>

Promotion material
------------------

This repository contains Tails [[promotion
material|contribute/how/promote/material]].

Anyone can check it out like this:

	git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/promotion-material

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	torsocks git clone gitolite@d53ykjpeekuikgoq.onion:promotion-material

We have a [web interface](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/promotion-material/)
available for the promotion material repository.

<a id="puppet"></a>

Puppet code
-----------

### Puppet manifests

Only Tails
[[system administrators|contribute/working_together/roles/sysadmins]]
have access to our Puppet manifests. If you are not a member of that
team, please skip to the _Puppet modules_ section below.

1. Configure your SSH client:

        Host git.puppet.tails.boum.org
		    HostName d53ykjpeekuikgoq.onion
		    ProxyCommand torsocks monkeysphere ssh-proxycommand %h %p

2. Clone our private Puppet manifests repository:

        git clone gitolite@git.puppet.tails.boum.org:puppet-lizard-manifests && \
        git submodule update --init

All the Puppet modules we use are tracked as Git submodules in
this repository.

<a id="puppet-modules"></a>

### Puppet modules

We use and publish a lot of other Puppet modules. Each of them is
stored in a Git repository called `puppet-$module`. For example,
`puppet-tails` is the main public Puppet module we use to manage Tails
infrastructure, including classes such as `tails::reprepro` and
`tails::whisperback::relay`.

If you are on the Tails system administration team, use the
authoritative repositories for these modules at
`git.puppet.tails.boum.org`:

 - They are referenced as Git submodules in our private Puppet
   manifests repository so you should have a local clone of
   them already.
 - Anything you push to these repositories (except `tails_secrets_*`)
   is automatically synchronized to public mirrors at
   <https://git-tails.immerda.ch/>.
 - Do not push to the public mirrors: your changes would be
   overwritten by the next automatic synchronization.

Otherwise, you can list, browse and fork these repositories using
their [[public mirrors|git#other-repositories]].

<a id="other-repositories"></a>

Other repositories
------------------

All other public Tails Git repositories are at
<https://git-tails.immerda.ch/>.

Unauthenticated access is of the form:

	git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/$REPOSITORY

Developers with write access to the repositories should instead:

	git clone tails@git.tails.boum.org:$REPOSITORY

<a id="submodules"></a>

Submodules
==========

We use Git submodules to track external repositories from the main
Tails source tree.

The main practical consequence thereof so far, for most Tails
contributors, is that one should generally run the following command
after checking out a branch:

	git submodule update --init

For more information, see:

* the [chapter about
  submodules](https://git-scm.herokuapp.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules)
  in the *Pro Git* book;
* the [`git-submodule(1)`](http://manpages.debian.org/git-submodule)
  man page.

<a id="creating-a-new-repository"></a>

Creating a new repository
=========================

In the vast majority of cases, your new repository will be hosted
at <https://git-tails.immerda.ch/>. Here is how to get it created.

1. Send your OpenPGP public key, pasted in the body of an email, to
   the [[Tails system administrators|about/contact#tails-sysadmins]].
   State that you want to establish a communication channel in order
   to eventually get a Git repository created. Do not _attach_ your
   public key, this would not work due to bugs in the mailing list
   software we use.
2. Wait for the Tails system administrators to confirm they have
   received your OpenPGP public key and imported it into the keyring
   of their mailing list.
3. Send your Git repository request in an OpenPGP-signed email to the
   [[Tails system administrators|about/contact#tails-sysadmins]];
   include the following information:
   - the name you want to publicly use in our Git repository hosting
     system (only lower-case ASCII chars and digits);
   - the preferred name of the repository you want to create
      (only lower-case ASCII chars and digits);
   - your SSH RSA public key;
   - whether the repository shall be publicly available or not;
   - who else needs read access to the repository, plus their SSH RSA
     public key;
   - who else needs write access to the repository, plus their SSH RSA
     public key.

Once your repository has been created, clone it:

* If you want to encrypt the content of your new Git repository with
  OpenPGP, go through some arcane
  [[initialization ritual|contribute/git#initialize-git-remote-gcrypt]]
  to reach wisdom, bliss and enlightenment.
* Otherwise (lucky you!), see:
  - [[addresses for Git clone and web access|contribute/git#other-repositories]]
  - [[immerda's documentation|contribute/git#immerda]].

<a id="initialize-git-remote-gcrypt"></a>

Initializing a git-remote-gcrypt repository
===========================================

Clone the new, empty repository in a way that tells Git it's going to
be encrypted:

	git clone gcrypt::tails@git-tails.immerda.ch:$REPOSITORY

Change directory into the newly cloned repository:

	cd $REPOSITORY

Decide whether you want to hide to the immerda administrators which
OpenPGP keys this repository will be encrypted for (note that this has
severe usability drawbacks). Skip to the next step if you really want
that. Otherwise:

	git config gcrypt.publish-participants true

Tell Git which OpenPGP keys the repository will be encrypted for:

	git config gcrypt.participants "LIST OF OPENPGP FINGERPRINTS"

Write some setup instructions for your team-mates, e.g. copy and
paste the `git config` command(s) you have just run:

	editor README

Add these setup instructions to the repository and commit:

	git add README && git commit -m 'Add setup documentation.'

Push:

	git push -u origin master

Troubleshooting
===============

First, check with your team-mates: in some cases they can help you
troubleshoot your problem, and confirm whether the problem is on your
side or on the server side. If that is not enough, get in touch with
the [[Tails system administrators|about/contact#tails-sysadmins]].
