This document is about:

* How we keep track of upcoming Linux kernel upgrades we may want, or
  have to, apply in Tails.
* How we apply such upgrades.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Background

… where the reader learns why this page is even needed and a few
relevant facts they should be aware of.

## APT repositories

Tails is built using a combination of snapshots of the Debian archive
and overlay APT suites. This greatly impact the timeline and processes
of upgrading any Debian package in Tails, and in particular the Linux
kernel. This document assumes a good understanding of this [[somewhat
complex system|contribute/APT_repository]].

## The Debian side of things

We generally ship the latest Linux kernel from Debian _unstable_ or
_stable backports_. There's a delay for new Linux uploads to migrate
from Debian _unstable_ to _testing_ and then to be uploaded and
accepted into _stable backports_. So in practice we tend to ship the
Linux kernel from Debian _unstable_: it happens regularly that the
version we want to ship is in _unstable_ but not in _stable
backports_ yet.

The Linux kernel binary packages include an ABI version number, e.g.
for `linux-image-4.18.0-2-amd64` the ABI is version 2.

Tracking the kernel from Debian _unstable_ has one significant
drawback: sometimes the only way to include security fixes is to
upgrade Linux to a major new version. For example, say the current
Tails release includes Linux 5.18.8, an important security issue was
fixed in 5.18.9 and in 5.19.6. If 5.19.6 was uploaded to _unstable_
but 5.18.9 never was, then our only option to include this security
fix is to upgrade to 5.19.6.

## _We_ need to decide

Which exact Linux kernel version we ship in a given Tails release is
a trade-off between packages availability, security fixes, stability,
and hardware support. The Foundations Team has to make this decision
during every Tails release cycle. Due to the way we manage our APT
repositories and to the fact we don't publish release candidates for
Tails bugfix releases, how this decision is made and implemented
depends in great part on what kind of Tails release is upcoming (major
or bugfix).

The `KERNEL_VERSION` variable in [[!tails_gitweb config/amnesia]]
determines what version of the kernel will be installed during the
build. This includes the ABI version number, so even our `devel`
branch does not get Linux point-release (e.g. 4.19.7) upgrades
automatically if the ABI is bumped.

# Process

A Foundations Team member (generally the team lead, so far) creates
a tracking ticket whenever:

 - A new major version of Linux is released. At this point, that
   version is generally available only in Debian _experimental_.
 - A Linux point-release (e.g. 4.19.7) that includes potentially
   relevant security fixes or changes the ABI is uploaded to Debian
   _unstable_.

Once this new kernel is available in our APT snapshots a Foundations
Team member (you!) gathers the data that will inform our decision.
There are two aspects to it: how it works for us and what the
risk/benefit of the upgrade is.

## Test the new kernel

To learn how the new kernel works for us:

1. Fork a branch off `devel` called
   `feature/NNNNN-linux-X.Y+force-all-tests`.
2. Adjust `KERNEL_VERSION` in `config/amnesia`. If `KERNEL_VERSION` is
   unchanged (point-release without ABI bump), then this branch is
   identical to `devel` and its only purpose is to force Jenkins to
   run our entire test suite (`+force-all-tests`). But since this
   branch has no commit on top of `devel`, Jenkins will ignore it, so
   you need to create a dummy commit.
2. Adjust the `aufs` submodule: in the `submodules/aufs-standalone`
   directory, use `git fetch` and `git branch -a` to find the most
   suitable branch for this kernel version, check it out, then move
   back to the top level directory. `git diff` should show an updated
   `Subproject commit` accordingly, and that can be committed.
3. Push this new branch to our CI.
4. Set the _Feature Branch_ field on the ticket to the name of your
   new branch.
5. Quickly test a build from this branch on your hardware.
6. Compare the Jenkins build and test results to the ones for our
   `stable` and `devel` branch.
7. Report your findings on the ticket.

## Gather other data that will inform our decision

You'll find the relevant data in:

 - [Changelog](https://salsa.debian.org/kernel-team/linux/raw/sid/debian/changelog)
   of the Debian package
 - Kernelnewbies's [human-readable
   changelog](https://kernelnewbies.org/LinuxChanges) of upstream
   changes (only relevant for a new major Linux release)
 - [Debian BTS](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?archive=0;dist=unstable;ordering=normal;repeatmerged=0;src=linux)
 - Debian [security tracker for
   Linux](https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/source-package/linux)

In there, look for:

 - Security issues fixed in _unstable_ since the version we currently ship
 - Major security fixes still not fixed in _unstable_ (in which case,
   depending on when we are in our own release process, it may be worth
   delaying the analysis a bit)
 - Important regressions i.e. bugs with severity _important_ or higher
   recently reported to Debian against this version of the kernel
 - Relevant hardware support improvements

Take notes on the ticket of the most relevant bits or lack thereof.

## Make a decision

With all the information you gathered earlier, use your best judgement
to make a decision. The kind of decision you need to make depends on
several factors:

 - If the upcoming Tails release is a major one and upgrading the
   kernel did not require modifying `KERNEL_VERSION`, then if we do
   nothing particular, our next release will get the upgrade. So you
   need to decide whether this kernel upgrade is bad enough for us to
   opt-out, or important enough for us to fix whatever regressions it
   may bring. In practice, opting-out of the upgrade is rarely the
   best choice but YMMV.

 - Otherwise, upgrading Linux in our next release will require work,
   so you need to decide whether the overall cost/benefit of the
   upgrade is worth it, factoring in the work needed and all the data
   you've gathered earlier.

If in doubt, ask your team-mates :)

If the decision is "do nothing", close the ticket and stop reading here.
Else, read on.

## Implement the decision

How to implement the decision depends on what kind of Tails release is
upcoming.

### Bugfix release

The branch you've used so far to get results from our CI was forked
off `devel` so it's not a valid candidate for merging into `stable`.
Therefore, create a new
`feature/NNNNN-linux-X.Y-stable+force-all-tests` topic branch forked
off `stable` and transplant onto it the commits you had to create on
your `devel`-based topic branch (`git rebase --onto` or `git
cherry-pick`). Update the _Feature Branch_ field accordingly
in Redmine.

But the new resulting topic branch will likely not build: a bugfix
release is built from our `stable` branch, that uses a set of APT
snapshots frozen during the last major release process, and these old
snapshots probably don't include the version of the kernel you want to
upgrade to. So there are two options:

 - Either bump the APT snapshot of the `debian` archive to the oldest
   one that includes this new kernel. When it can reasonably be done,
   this is the cheapest option so it's worth trying it first:

   1. Update `config/APT_snapshots.d/debian/serial`, commit, push and
      trigger a build on Jenkins.
   2. Compare the `.build-manifest` and `.packages` files generated
      by building your topic branch with [[!tails_gitweb_dir desc="the
      ones for the current Tails release" wiki/src/torrents/files]].
   3. If the diff seems reasonable, fine. Otherwise, fall back to the
      next option (freeze exception).

 - Or use our [[freeze
   exception|contribute/APT_repository/time-based_snapshots#design-freeze-exceptions]]
   mechanism i.e. import the new Linux packages into a dedicated
   overlay suite in our custom APT repository and make your topic
   branch use it.

The CI results you got with your previous topic branch based on
`devel` are not valid for your new branch: the new kernel may work
fine in the former case thanks to corresponding userspace changes, but
cause trouble in the context of our `stable` branch. So push your
branch to our CI, trigger a build in Jenkins and analyze the
test results. Once happy:

1. Follow our usual process to get it reviewed and merged.
2. Follow the instructions to [[enable new security
   features|Linux_kernel#new-security-features]].

### Major release

If you decided to opt-out from a kernel upgrade we would otherwise
automatically include: piggy-back on our [[freeze
exception|contribute/APT_repository/time-based_snapshots#design-freeze-exceptions]]
mechanism to force the installation of an older kernel.

Else, you're trying to upgrade the kernel. It turns out you already
have prepared the very topic branch we need to do that, so:

1. Follow our usual process to get it reviewed and merged.
2. Follow the instructions to [[enable new security
   features|Linux_kernel#new-security-features]].

<a id="new-security-features"></a>

# Enable new security features

This section assumes we have decided to upgrade to a major new version
of Linux.

Major new kernel versions often bring new security features.
After each major kernel release, Kees Cook publishes on
[his blog](https://outflux.net/blog/) an article titled
"security things in Linux $VERSION" about these improvements.

What you need to do depends on what it takes to benefit from each such
improvement:

 - Enabled by default: nothing to do, profit :)

 - Guarded by local configuration such as a sysctl or a kernel command
   line option: file a ticket about it on Redmine and add this ticket
   to the Foundations Team' radar. Optionally, do the work yourself:
   once you've got CI results about your topic branch with this new
   option disabled, add a commit that enables it and compare the
   results (including test suite total run time, to spot important
   performance regressions).

 - Needs to be enabled at kernel configuration time: check if it's
   been enabled in the Debian kernel; if it's not been enabled there
   yet and enabling it would make sense in a general-purpose distro
   kernel where UX breakage and performance regressions can be serious
   problems, file a wishlist bug against the `linux` source package.
   Point to Kees' post and explain why you think it's worth it.
