[[!meta title="Contributors meetings"]]

[[!toc]]

Each month Tails contributors gather for an online meeting in which
everybody is welcome to attend: existing contributors and those who want
to become one.

- **Date**:
  - The **3rd** day of the month if it's a day between Monday and
    Thursday (inclusive)
  - The **6th** day of the month otherwise
- **Time**: 19:00 Berlin time (17:00 or 18:00 UTC, depending on the date)
- **Location**: [[`tails-dev` XMPP chatroom|contribute/chat]]

If you want to get involved but don't know yet how, please introduce
yourself during the meeting, and be sure to tell us what you are
interested in.

The meeting might not be the most adequate time and place to properly
introduce newcomers to the development process, but at least it should
be a fine place to know each other, and schedule a better suited event.

<a id="preparing-a-discussion"></a>

# Preparing a discussion

To have fruitful discussions we prepare them to make sure that:

  - The meeting is the right place for a given discussion; otherwise it
    should be redirected to mailing lists or Redmine.
  - Enough information is available; especially if a decision has to be
    made.
  - The required people or skills are present.
  - The discussion is lead in a fruitful way.

Discussions with no assignee will be postponed.

## Discussion about a Redmine ticket

If you want to propose a discussion about
a [[Redmine|contribute/working_together/Redmine]] ticket:

  - Make sure that it corresponds to a ticket with:

    - *Discuss* as its *Type of Work*
    - You as its *Assignee*
    - Detailed enough information on the ticket

  - Add it to the [[blueprint of the agenda|blueprint/monthly_meeting]].

## Discussion about a strategic planning topic

If you want to propose a discussion about a strategic planning topic:

  - Make sure it is marked *Needs discussion* on our
    [[blueprint/Strategic planning]] living document.

  - Prepare yourself for facilitating this discussion:

    - Think about how you will structure the discussion.
    - The
      [Facilitating consensus in Virtual Meetings](https://www.seedsforchange.org.uk/virtualmtg)
      guide is a good resource to get started.

  - Add it to the [[blueprint of the agenda|blueprint/monthly_meeting]].

<a id="notes"></a>

# Instructions for taking notes

  - Store a full log of the meeting along in attachment to your minutes.
    See for example [[201707/logs.txt|201707/logs.txt]].
  - Explain the decision (being as brief as possible saves you work and
    makes better notes):
    - Explain in details the decisions that were taken rather than the
      discussion that lead to them (they are in the logs anyway).
    - Summarize the discussion only if no decision was taken.
    - Include names of people who took responsibilities.
  - Update Redmine tickets:
    - Copy the meeting notes in a comment on the ticket and point to the
      notes.
    - Update the ticket if needed (unless someone else volunteers to do
      it).
  - Remove all topics that don't require further discussion from the
    [[blueprint of the agenda|blueprint/monthly_meeting]].

# Meeting minutes

[[!inline pages="page(contribute/meetings/*)" template="titlepage" sort="-title" limit="0"]]
