# Reimbursements for workers and regular contributors

As a Tails worker or regular contributor, Tails can reimburse

- small hardware expenses
- big hardware expenses

as long as they are needed to do your Tails work.

Tails also reimburses

- travel to and from Tails meetings
- food you paid during Tails meetings (sprints, summit)
- food your bought during your travel to a Tails meeting.

For [attending non-Tails events, refer to the corresponding
documentation|/contribute/sponsorship_to_attend_events/].

## Small hardware expenses

  - Small hardware expenses:
    You do not need pre-approval for small hardware expenses, like
    buying a new USB stick. See below for how to claim your expenses.

## Big hardware expenses

  - Big hardware expenses:
    You need to ask for pre-approval for big hardware expenses, like
    buying a laptop. See below for how to ask for pre-approval and how to
    claim your expenses.

## Getting reimbursed when attending Tails meetings

By Tails meetings we mean work sprints and the yearly summit.

  - Attending Tails meetings:
    You do not need pre-approval to buy your travel tickets, however we
    ask you to buy them early enough when they are still cheap. We will
    not reimburse tickets bought less than two weeks before the meeting
    if they are too expensive. In case of doubt, please ask the
    accounting team.

  - Travel tickets:
    Please ask the accounting team first if you plan to travel privately
    before or after the meeting (e.g. home → meeting → vacation → home)
    as this will need justification towards the tax office and is not a
    purely work-related travel anymore.

  - Food and office supplies:
    During meeting it happens that a contributor buys food or office
    supplies for everyone.  Please make sure this is indeed the case and
    you do not just buy food for yourself. Meeting budgets are generally
    limited and we cannot reimburse you if the budget is exceeded.

# Ask for pre-approval of a big expense

If you plan to buy a laptop or make another big expense, you need to ask
<tails@boum.org> for pre-approval. To do this, send an email with:

- planned expense: description of item, amount
- short explanation of why you need to make this expense
- tell us if you want Tails to cover the costs entirely or, if you will
  use it also for other work, if you want us to cover only parts of the
  expense
- if you can: remind us if Tails has already paid for the same expense
  in the past and when

Expect a reply in 2-4 weeks.

# Claim your expenses

When you have spent money on behalf of Tails and want to be
reimbursed, you need to send an expense report and the corresponding
receipts to the accounting team.

## What documents we need

### Expense report

Fill a copy of the [expense report file](Expense_Report_Template.fods) or indicate in your email:

- Your name
- Receipt date
- Description
- Amount of receipt (convert to Euros using the rate of the day you
  bought the item)

### Receipts

If the amount of the expense is under 150€, and the receipt never had
any name on it (e.g. a supermarket receipt): it's fine; we need the
original paper receipt.

Otherwise, if the expense amounts to 150€ or more, we need a receipt
or invoice with a name on it:

  - When making the expense, you can ask the vendor to write
    "Center for the Cultivation of Technology gGmbH" as the client
    name, to avoid having *your* name on the invoice.

If you got only a digital document (e.g. a PDF sent by the airline for
your flight booking confirmation): no need for paper; we need
that file.

### What we will do with your receipts

tl;dr: your receipts will be sent to untrusted third-parties, and
might even be published in reports by funders or fiscal sponsors.

## How to claim your expenses

To get your expenses reimbursed, follow these steps in the following
order:

/!\ Big hardware expenses need to be claimed within 10 days.

1. Gather all the proofs of expense (receipts and expense report) as
   explained in "What documents we need".

2. Ask the accounting team where to send your paper proofs, or send the
   digital receipts by email (see next step).

3. Send one single email to <tails-accounting@boum.org> with:

     - your expense report;
     - for any expense that has no paper trail: the digital documents
       used as proofs;
     - if relevant, a pointer to the expense pre-approval;
     - how you want to be reimbursed

# Special needs

## If you can't, or don't want to, share the original receipt

Note: this also applies when you have lost the original receipt ;)

Send one single email to <tails-accounting@boum.org> with:

  - the (possibly anonymized) proof of expense; scans or photographs
    are OK; we will not share it outside of the accounting team;

  - if you have lost *all* the valid proofs of an expense: some way to
    prove, as best as you can, that you did spend this money (e.g.
    boarding pass, booking confirmation email, testimony of
    a team-mate who saw you spend the money, etc.);

  - for lost travel tickets: ask the accounting team for advice;

  - your expense report.
