[[!meta title="Relationship with upstreams"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Why this document?

The Debian Derivatives Guidelines ([[!debwiki
Derivatives/Guidelines]]) encourages "derivative distributions to
mention and define their relationship with Debian". Because this seems
like a great idea to us, we wrote this statement that not only covers
Tails' relationship with Debian, but also Tails' relationship with any
one of its upstream projects.

# Summary

For various reasons Tails tries to diverge by the smallest possible
amount from its upstream projects, and especially from Debian:

- We want to share our work with the rest of the Free Software
  community.
- We value maintainability very much: we believe our users are best
  served if we keep the amount of work needed to maintain Tails the
  smallest possible.

# How

## Upstream software

We try to push our changes upstream when we need to modify software we
ship. This often requires us to write code in a generic way, rather
than implementing ad-hoc hacks to fit our specific needs; e.g. we
often need to make the stuff we need opt-in and add configuration
options.

## Debian packaging

Debian offers great amounts of flexibility to derivative developers,
so we seldom need to modify Debian-specific parts of the software we
ship; in the rare cases we need to:

- we at least inform the concerned Debian maintainers of our needs to
  give them a chance to enhance their packages to fit our needs, e.g.
  by adding debconf options;
- we intend to try to do this ourselves and submit patches to Debian.

### Debian Bug tracking system

We file and contribute to RFP and WNPP bugs so that software we need
lands in Debian. More generally, we heavily use the Debian
infrastructure such as the [BTS](http://bugs.debian.org/).

We use usertags ([documentation](http://wiki.debian.org/bugs.debian.org/usertags)),
[reporting](http://www.debian.org/Bugs/Reporting)) to track bugs we
are interested on the Debian BTS.

There is a dynamically generated [list of our usertagged
bugs](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?users=tails-dev@boum.org).

Our custom tags include:

  - [[!debusertag breaks-build]]: things that somehow break Tails images build process
  - [[!debusertag build-tools]]: live-build and other tools we use at build-time
  - [[!debusertag disk-space]]
  - [[!debusertag freeness]]
  - [[!debusertag hardening]]: general kernel and toolchain hardening issues
  - [[!debusertag mandatory-access-control]]: [[!tails_todo Mandatory_Access_Control]]
  - [[!debusertag memory-erasure]]
  - [[!debusertag privacy-violation]]
  - [[!debusertag iceweasel]]
  - [[!debusertag l10n]]
  - [[!debusertag testing]]
  - [[!debusertag ui]]
  - [[!debusertag usb-installer]]

See our [bugs
list](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?users=tails-dev@boum.org)
for the full and up-to-date list.

## Build tools

We contribute to [Debian Live](http://live.debian.net/) on a regular
basis. Every single feature we have added to Debian Live has been
merged upstream, and we intend to go on this way.
