[[!meta title="Release schedule"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Tails has a time-based release schedule, aligned with [Firefox ESR
(Extended Support Release)'s](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Release_Management/Calendar).
In the examples below we'll assume a 6-weeks release cycle.

We generally publish 2 or 3 major Tails releases every year.
Between two consecutive major releases, we publish as many bugfix
releases as required by Mozilla's release schedule: generally,
between 1 and 4 bugfix releases.

On top of that, we occasionally publish an extra emergency release in
order to quickly fix a critical security vulnerability that became
publicly known or is being used in the wild. The most common example
of this is when Mozilla publishes a ["chemspill"
release](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Release_Management/Chemspill)
of Firefox.

See our actual [[release schedule|contribute/calendar]].

Schedule
========

	  /          4w         \/   2w    /4d\
	                                     
	  previous               RC1    ESR sources
	  ESR + Tails             |        |
	  release          freeze |        |  new ESR + Tails
	  |                     | |        |  release
	  |                     | |        |  |
	  ↓                     ↓ ↓        ↓  ↓
	._____._____._____._____._____._____._____.
	0     1     2     3     4     5     6

In the above:

* *ESR sources* means the source code for the upcoming Firefox ESR is
  available, but the ESR is not officially out yet: it has to go
  through Mozilla's QA process first. Sources are generally available
  on Friday night (US time).
* *ESR + Tails release* means Mozilla announces the new Firefox ESR,
  and we release a new version of Tails (roughly) the same day.
  This usually happens on Tuesday night (US time).

What if things go wrong?
========================

Postponing the final release causes problems for those who have
scheduled time for post-release user support, press work, etc..

Also, changing our mind (i.e. releasing a bugfix release instead of
a major one) => switching bugfix/major release schedule for the future
is probably not an option either.

So we need to have a pessimistic enough RC->final schedule to handle
unexpected issues.

Reverting the faulty feature branch is an option too.

<a id="versioning"></a>

Versioning scheme
=================

* We always increment the first number when switching to a new major
  release of Debian. When we do this we reset the second number to zero.
* We also increment the first number whenever it make sense for Tails
  only (user-visible changes).
* The second number is incremented for every release that does not
  increment the first number.
* We add an extra, third number for emergency releases.
