[[!meta title="Starter tasks for new contributors"]]

The tasks marked as *Starter* in our bug tracker have been identified as good
starting points for new contributors. They cover all kinds of work: testing,
design, writing, coding, etc.

[[!tails_gitlab
groups/tails/-/issues?label_name%5B%5D=Starter
desc="*Starter* tasks"]]

The description of the task should provide enough useful information to help you
complete it. Otherwise, don't hesitate to [[ask us on tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]] for
clarification.

You can also have a look at other tasks marked as
[[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/issues?label_name%5B%5D=P%3ALow
desc="low priority"]] on our GitLab.
We marked them as of low priority according to our [[!tails_roadmap]] but they might
be interesting, useful and fun to work on!

Recommendations
===============

  - Once you choose a task that fits your skills, send an email to
    [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]] saying that you are starting to work
    on this task.

  - Keep us updated with your progress from time to time.

  - Even if you are deeply skilled, please consider doing one little starter task,
    to get used to the process. After that, you are invited to move on up to
    more difficult tasks, leaving some of the starter tasks to others so they can
    get involved and achieve change themselves.

More Information
================

- [[Contribute|contribute]] section, for more resources on Tails development.
- [[Marking a task as *Starter*|contribute/working_together/criteria_for_starter_tasks]],
  to understand what are our criteria for those tasks.

This page was inspired by the [Easy
Hacks](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Easy_Hacks) project of
[LibreOffice](https://www.documentfoundation.org/).
