This document is about how we upgrade packages built from the `tor`
source package.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Background

Tails is built using a combination of snapshots of APT
repositories and overlay APT suites. This document assumes a good
understanding of this [[somewhat complex system|contribute/APT_repository]].

We generally install packages built from the `tor` source package from
<http://deb.torproject.org/torproject.org>:

 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_sources/torproject.chroot]]
 - [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_apt/preferences]]

The corresponding archive in our APT snapshots setup is called `torproject`:
[[!tails_gitweb config/APT_snapshots.d/torproject/serial]].

# Process

A Foundations Team member or Release Manager creates a tracking issue whenever
a new stable version of `tor` is released.

Once this new version is available in our APT snapshots, a Foundations Team
member (you!) gathers the data that will inform our decision, and prepares
the upgrade:

1. Fork a branch off `stable` called
   `feature/NNNNN-tor-X.Y+force-all-tests`.
2. On that branch, bump `config/APT_snapshots.d/torproject/serial` to a snapshot
   that's recent enough to include the relevant new version of `tor`.
3. Push this new branch to our CI.
5. Compare the Jenkins build and test results to the ones for our
   `stable` branch. What follows assumes that these CI results look good.
   If they don't, more work is needed.
6. [[Bump the expiration
   date|contribute/APT_repository/time-based_snapshots/#bump-expiration-date]]
   for the snapshot of the `torproject` archive that you've switched the
   branch _to_. Set the same expiration date as the one for the snapshot
   of the `torproject` archive that you've switched the branch _from_.
   See tip below.
7. State on the tracking issue that you've bumped the expiration
   date of the snapshot.
8. Submit your branch for review via our [[usual
   process|contribute/merge_policy#submit]].


## Tip: pushing back expiration date

Let's set some variables: the Debian base distribution, and the old
serial (before the change to `config/APT_snapshots.d/torproject/serial`):

    DIST=buster
    OLD_SERIAL=2020020402

Get the timestamp from the `Valid-Until` field in the `Release` file
for the old snapshot of that distribution, and compute the number of
days between now and then:

    old_url="https://time-based.snapshots.deb.tails.boum.org/torproject/dists/${DIST?:}/snapshots/${OLD_SERIAL?:}/Release"
    old_ts=$(date -d "$(wget -q $old_url -O- | awk '/^Valid-Until:/ {$1=""; print}')" +%s)
    now_ts=$(date +%s)
    echo "Days from now: $(((old_ts-now_ts)/(24*60*60)+1))"
