[[!meta title="How to automatically download and seed Tails over BitTorrent"]]

<div id="intro">

Once you participate in spreading Tails by seeding it over BitTorrent,
it is important to make sure you share the latest and greatest version
as soon as it's out, so that other users can obtain these updates as
quickly as possible.

If you run GNU/Linux, then it is fairly easy to automate the process
of retrieving and seeding new Tails releases as they are released.

The tools involved are <a
href='https://code.google.com/p/rssdler/'>rssdler</a> and <a
href='http://libtorrent.rakshasa.no/'>rTorrent</a>; at least the
latter is available in most distributions package repositories.

[[!toc levels=2]]

</div>

rTorrent
========

1. Running at startup
---------------------

After installing rTorrent, you will want to have it run at boot time.

It greatly depends on the init system your distributions uses.

One way to do this is to install an initscript, such as [that
(crappy) one](automatically_download_and_seed_Tails_over_BitTorrent/rtorrent),
by placing it into `/etc/init.d/`, editing it to replace `USERNAME` with your username,
and then setting it to run at boot (`chkconfig` on Red Hat -like
systems, `rcconf` or `update-rc.d` on Debian-like systems).

This will make it so that rTorrent loads at boot time, creating
a screen named 'rtorrent', which you can access giving the following
command:

    screen -r rtorrent

Alternatively, you can create a desktop launcher with a command similar to:

    gnome-terminal --title rtorrent -e 'screen -r rtorrent' 

2. Configuring automation
-------------------------

rTorrent stores it's configuration in a file called `.rtorrent.rc` in
your home directory.

You can modify the [official
rtorrent.rc](http://libtorrent.rakshasa.no/browser/trunk/rtorrent/doc/rtorrent.rc#latest)
or start from [[this modified
rtorrent.rc|automatically_download_and_seed_Tails_over_BitTorrent/rtorrent.rc]]. The modified
version comes pre-configured for randomization of ports, disabled DHT,
and forced encryption.

The changes you have to do yourself are:

1. Modify your directory variable (working dir for rTorrent).
1. Modify your session variable (session lock dir).
1. Modify your schedule variable.
1. Tell it where it will find the `.torrent` files.
1. Tell it where to save the data it downloads.

rssdler
=======

1. Configuration
----------------

rssdler check an [[rss feed|/torrents/rss]] periodically and downloads
any `.torrent` file listed in there to wherever place you wish.
Its configuration file is in `~/rssdler/config`. It should contain
something like:

    [tails]
    link = https://tails.boum.org/torrents/rss/index.rss
    maxSize = 2048
    minSize = 10
    directory = /home/path/to/torrentfiles/

Now rssdler should know to put `.rtorrent` files in the directory in
which rTorrent is scanning. The final step is getting rssdler to run
when you need it.

2. Running at startup
---------------------

rssdler can be set up to run as a daemon (`rssdler -d`), or to run
only once (`rssdler -o`). This means you can add rssdler to your
session startup, or create a cron job for it.

    crontab -e
    */10 * * * * /usr/local/bin/rssdler -o

Adding this to the end of your crontab file will run the task every
ten minutes. Alternatively, add `rssdler -d` to your
distribution-specific startup tasks.
