[[!meta title="GNOME Boxes"]]

[<span class="application">GNOME Boxes</span>](https://wiki.gnome.org/Boxes) aims at providing a simple
interface to create and use virtual machines for Linux with GNOME.
*GNOME Boxes* does not allow to use a persistent volume.

[[!inline pages="doc/advanced_topics/virtualization.caution" raw="yes"]]

<div class="note">

<p>The following instructions have been tested on Debian Jessie.</p>

</div>

Installation
============

To install *GNOME Boxes* in Debian or Ubuntu, execute the following
command:

    sudo apt-get install gnome-boxes

Running Tails from an ISO image
===============================

  1. Start *GNOME Boxes*.
  2. Click on the **New** button on the top of the window.
  3. In the **Source Selection** dialog, choose **Select a file** and
     browse for the ISO image that you want to start from.
  4. In the **Review** dialog, click on the **Create** button on the top
     of the window.

Shared clipboard
================

<div class="caution">

<p>The shared clipboard of <span class="application">GNOME Boxes</span>
is enabled by default. This can allow sensitive data to be copied by
mistake from the virtual machine onto the host operating system or vice
versa.</p>

<p>We recommend you to disable the shared clipboard.</p>

</div>

To disable the shared clipboard:

  1. Click on the
     [[!img preferences-system-symbolic.png alt="Preferences" class=symbolic link=no]]
     button on the top-right corner of the window.
  2. Select the **Display** screen in the left pane.
  3. Deactivate **Share clipboard** in the right pane.
  4. Click on the
     [[!img go-previous-symbolic.png alt="Previous" class=symbolic link=no]]
     button to go back to the display of the virtual machine.
