[[!meta title="Virtualization: tips and tricks"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

As explained on the [[virtualization warning
page|advanced_topics/virtualization]], using Tails in a Virtual Machine
involves you put great trust into the host operating system and the
virtualization software.

Here are some tips may help hardening (a bit) the host operating
system.

# Operating systems

## Microsoft Windows

You should NOT trust Windows to be secure if you use Tails for
anything you consider risky. Windows could be made a tiny bit more
trustworthy if you installed a HIPS (Host Intrusion Prevention System)
with high security settings instantly after installing Windows. If
Windows not is installed from a genuine Windows CD/DVD you can not
trust it enough, not even if it's a preinstalled copy of Windows
(there have been cases of computers being shipped with malware). If
you install a HIPS first after using Windows for some time (less then
an hour online is enough) you could already have a rootkit that the
HIPS can't detect. Even with a HIPS you should not use Windows as a
host OS if you risk personal harm for your use of Tails.

# Virtualization solutions

## VirtualBox

Tails runs in [VirtualBox](http://virtualbox.org) without any major configuration
necessary. VirtualBox is distributed both as a closed-source and as an
open-source (the so called OSE or Open Source Edition), the latter which the
Tails developer's encourages (although it currently lacks USB support compared
to the closed-source version).

