[[!meta title="Tails $VERSION is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, $DAY $MON $YEAR 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

<!--

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_$VERSION-1]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

OR

This release is an emergency release to fix a critical security
vulnerability in $APPLICATION.

It also fixes [[other security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_$VERSION-1]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

-->

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="features">New features</h1>

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

<-- You can reuse the following subsections if the section gets too big:

## Included software

- Update *Xyz* to [1.2.3].

- Update *Xyz* from 1.0.0 to [1.2.3].

- Update *Tor Browser* to [1.2.3](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-123).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [1.2.3](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/1.2.3/releasenotes/).

- Update (*Linux* to 1.2.3|most firmware packages). This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

## Hardware support

The following updates make Tails work better on recent hardware (graphics,
Wi-Fi, etc.):

-->

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails $VERSION</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to $VERSION.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails $VERSION directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails $VERSION+1 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for $MONTH $DAY.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=$VERSION">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
