[[!meta title="⚠ Identity ⚠"]]

<h1 id="encryption">Tails doesn't encrypt your documents by default</h1>

It is also likely that the files you might create will contain evidence that they were created using Tails.

**If you need to access the local hard-disks** of the computer you are using, be
conscious that you might then leave traces of your activities with Tails on it.

<h1 id="metadata">Tails doesn't clear the metadata of your documents for you and doesn't encrypt the Subject: and other headers of your encrypted email messages</h1>

Numerous files formats store hidden data or metadata inside of the files. Word
processing or PDF files could store the name of the author, the date and time of
creation of the file, and sometimes even parts of the editing history of the
file, depending on the file format and the software used.

Please note also, that the Subject: as well as the rest of the header lines of your
OpenPGP encrypted email messages are not encrypted. This is not a bug of Tails or
the [OpenPGP](http://www.mozilla-enigmail.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=328) protocol;
it's due to backwards compatibility with the original SMTP protocol. Unfortunately no
RFC standard exists yet for Subject: line encryption.

Image file formats, like TIFF of JPEG, probably take the prize for most hidden data.
These files, created by digital cameras or mobile phones, contain a metadata
format called EXIF which can include the date, time and sometimes the GPS
coordinates when the picture was taken, the brand and serial number of the device which took
it, as well as a thumbnail of the original image. Image processing software tends
to keep this metadata intact. The internet is full of cropped or blurred images in
which the included EXIF thumbnail still shows the original picture.

**Tails doesn't clear the metadata of your files for you**. Yet. Still it's in
Tails' design goal to help you do that. For example, Tails already comes with
the [Metadata anonymisation toolkit](https://0xacab.org/jvoisin/mat2).

<h1 id="identities">Use Tails sessions for one purpose at a time</h1>

For example, don't use the same Tails session to both check your work email and
anonymously publish a document. That is, unless you're OK with an adversary being able to correlate those tasks.

Adversaries could relate different tasks done in a Tails session by:

- **Analyzing your Tor circuits**

  Tails and the Tor Browser naturally connect to different websites via different [[circuits in the Tor network|doc/anonymous_internet/tor_status]].
  But if you connect to the same website several times in one session,
  like logging into two accounts on the same social media website, Tails and the Tor Browser
  use the same circuit. This website could then link those activities by noting
  that they come from the same Tor circuit.

  To ensure you use new Tor circuits for Internet traffic:

  * If you only use the Tor Browser to connect to the Internet, you can click its [[**New Identity** button|anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser]] to create a new circuit.
  * If you use multiple applications, you can restart Tails.

  For more about how Tor does or does not preserve anonymity, see the [Tor Project's support pages](https://support.torproject.org/#staying-anonymous).

- **Gaining access to your [[Persistent Storage|doc/first_steps/persistence/]]**

  You can prevent the information in your Persistent Storage from being linked
  to other activities by switching between several USB sticks that run Tails.
  That way the Persistent Storage of, say, your activist email in *Thunderbird* can be kept separate
  from your use of Tails for work.

  We also recommend this step if you worry about someone gaining physical access
  to your computer or USB sticks. This is particularly a concern if you have to
  use Tails on an insecure or public computer, because
  [[Tails can't protect against compromised hardware|/doc/about/warning#compromised_hardware]].

