[[!meta date="Mon, 07 Dec 2009 11:20:24 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Icedove (Thunderbird) leaks the real IP address"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag security/fixed]]

The Torbutton extension installed in amnesia being incompatible with
Icedove (Thunderbird), the real IP address of the computer is
disclosed to the SMTP relay that is used to send email.

# Impact

When using Icedove to send email, the computer's real IP address is
disclosed to the SMTP relay, that usually writes it down to
a `Received:` header inside outgoing email. This private information
is therefore disclosed to:

* the SMTP relay's administrators;
* anyone who is able to read such a sent email, including: anyone the
  email is sent to, various network and email
  servers administrators.

When using a NAT-ed Internet connection, the disclosed IP is a local
network one (e.g. 192.168.1.42), which usually does not reveal too
much. On the other hand, when connecting directly to the Internet,
e.g. using a PPP or DSL modem and no router, the disclosed IP truly
reveals the location of the amnesia user.

# Solution

Upgrade to [[amnesia 0.4.1|news/version_0.4.1]], that ships with Claws Mail instead of Icedove,
**and** set the following preferences in `~/.claws-mail/accountrc` for
every account:

        set_domain=1
        domain=localhost

See [[!tails_ticket 6119]] for details.

# Mitigation

Best is to avoid using Icedove (Thunderbird) in amnesia until
fixed images are released. If not possible:

* Use amnesia behind a NAT-ed Internet connection, inside a LAN that
  uses widespread IP addresses.
* Use a trustworthy, privacy-friendly SMTP relay that does not write
  down the client's IP address anywhere, especially in email headers.

Note that using GnuPG does not fix this problem at all: GnuPG only
encrypts the email body, the email headers being always kept
in clear.

# Affected versions

Any amnesia release until, and including, 0.3.
amnesia 0.4 is not affected.
