[[!meta title="Download verification"]]

Software verification is a critical step in the use of secure
applications but it has traditionally been hard to provide, especially
from a user experience perspective.

Usual solutions are:

- HTTPS

  All our download mirrors use HTTPS, which is a good starting point.

  But HTTPS is not enough because we rely on [[mirrors
  hosted by third parties|contribute/design/mirrors]]. They could serve
  malicious downloads to our users.

  HTTPS also doesn't protect from interrupted downloads that can lead to
  broken Tails installations.

- OpenPGP signatures

  Unless the user knows how to verify the signing key through the
  OpenPGP Web of Trust, this technique ultimately relies on a correct
  download of the signing key and signature, and thus on HTTPS.

Tails provides 3 mechanisms for users to verify the image downloaded
through a third party mirror, while relying on cryptographic information
fetched from our website through HTTPS.

1. JavaScript verification

   The main verification mechanism relies on JavaScript code on the
   download page. See below for more details.

1. BitTorrent download

   The Torrent file downloaded through HTTPS from our website includes a
   checksum of the image. BitTorrent clients automatically verify this
   checksum when the download finishes.

1. OpenPGP signature

   We provide an OpenPGP signature of our downloads.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Related documents
=================

- [[Design document of the installation assistant, including the download page|installation_assistant]]

OpenPGP verification instructions
=================================

We removed the instructions to verify downloads with OpenPGP because:

- Without advanced knowledge of OpenPGP, verifying with OpenPGP provides the
  same level of security as the JavaScript verification on the download page,
  while being much more complicated and error-prone.

- None of our [[personas|contribute/personas]] would have enough knowledge of
  OpenPGP to use the OpenPGP Web of Trust with confidence.

- Providing basic (and never exhaustive) instructions has proven to be very
  time consuming to our help desk and technical writers. See [[!tails_ticket
  17900]].

We still explain how to verify our signing key using the OpenPGP Web of Trust
in the [[installation instructions from Debian, Ubuntu, or Mint using the
command line and GnuPG|install/expert/usb]] because Debian derivatives come
with trusted OpenPGP keys that can be used to create a path to our signing key.

Scope of the JavaScript verification
====================================

Goals
-----

  - Provide a simple, automated, and cross-platform technique to verify
    USB and ISO images of the current version of Tails.

  - Allow verifying any current Tails image: downloaded over BitTorrent,
    copied from a friend, downloaded from one of our mirrors.

Non goals
---------

  - Verify deprecated Tails images.

  - Verify Tails images downloaded from nightly.tails.boum.org.

Threat model
============

We are considering here an attacker who can:

  - [A] Provide a malicious Tails image to the user for example by
    operating a rogue Tails mirror.

  - [H] Operate a website that is loaded in a different tab in the same
    browser. This threat is taken care of by the internals of the
    browser and the proper coding of the JavaScript.

We are not considering an attacker who can:

  - [B] Do a man-in-the-middle attack by providing a rogue HTTPS certificate
    for https://tails.boum.org/ signed by a certificate authority
    trusted by the browser but under the control of the attacker.

    Since the JavaScript verification is targeted at new users, a MitM or exploit on
    our website could defeat any verification technique by providing
    simplified instructions or by faking the verification.

    Note that our website is already in the [HSTS preload list of major
    browsers](https://hstspreload.org/?domain=tails.boum.org), which forces HTTPS connections to our website, even for
    first time visitors.

  - [C] Insert malicious content on https://tails.boum.org/ through an
    exploit on our website as this could trick new users to skip the Tails
    image verification all the way. To prevent this kind of attack we
    should instead:

    - Monitor externally the most relevant parts of our website.
    - Work on integrating full upgrades in Tails Upgrader to limit the
      number of times people have to rely on our website to upgrade. See
      [[!tails_ticket 7499]].

  - [D] Insert malicious information in our main Git repository as such
    an attacker could do attack [C] as well.

  - [E] Insert targeted malware in the user's computer or web browser as this could
    defeat any possible verification mechanism that such JavaScript
    can do.

    For example, we cannot protect from a malicious extension installed
    in the web browser.

  - [G] Insert malicious content on https://tails.boum.org/ after taking
    control of the web server, or entire system, behind it. Such an
    attacker could do attack [C] as well but in such a way that could be
    much harder to detect (for example by serving malicious content only to
    some users).

  - [J] Provide a malicious copy of our website on a similar looking URL
    that could pretend that verification has succeeded without actually
    verifying anything.

Functioning
===========

Image description file
----------------------

When verifying a Tails image, the JavaScript:

1. Downloads an image description file (IDF) from:

   <https://tails.boum.org/install/v2/Tails/amd64/stable/latest.json>

   The IDF is served with the HTTP headers <span
   class="code">`Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`</span> to allow
   developers to test the verification locally from a `file:///` URL.

1. Verifies that the checksum of the image is present in the IDF.

*Forge* library
---------------

The JavaScript uses the
[*Forge*](https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge/) library to calculate
the checksum.

We chose *Forge* because it was [the fastest in this benchmark of
JavaScript checksum
implementations](https://github.com/brillout/test-javascript-hash-implementations).

We cannot use the native [SubtleCrypto.digest()
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest)
because it [cannot read files as
streams](https://github.com/w3c/webcrypto/issues/73) and would require
loading the entire image in memory before computing its checksum.

We also rely on reading the image as a stream to display the progress
bar, which is really important since the whole verification takes close
to 1 minute.

Browser compatibility
---------------------

- Internet Explorer is not supported because our JavaScript uses the
  [readAsBinaryString
  API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileReader/readAsBinaryString).

- Browsers without JavaScript are instructed to either enable JavaScript
  or calculate the checksum using
  [[GtkHash|doc/encryption_and_privacy/checksums]].
