---------------------------------------------------------------------

**WARNING!**

**This is a preliminary work-in-progress draft, don't believe anything of it (yet).**

---------------------------------------------------------------------

[[!toc levels=2]]

Other design documents:

[[!map pages="contribute/design/*"]]

**FIXME**

- use RFC 2129's key words (e.g. MUST, SHOULD, MAY): waiting for a
  decision
- diff specification -> implementation, and mention missing bits in
  the caveats section
- make sure all main sections have a few introductory words to
  complement the headings
- HTTP keepalive:
 * being discussed on tails-dev mailing-list
 * the [Live CD Best
   Practices](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/TheOnionRouter/LiveCDBestPractices)
   document on the Tor wiki says:
   "OPTIONAL? To prevent the browser from keeping HTTP sessions open
   over existing circuits the following network settings should be
   applied. This will ensure that new circuits, such as requested via
   NEWNYM, will service subsequent HTTP requests."
- CSS: have the headings automatically numbered

# 1 Introduction

In this document we present a specification of a *Privacy Enhancing
Live Distribution* (PELD) as well as an actual implementation of it called
*The (Amnesic) Incognito Live System* (in short: *T(A)ILS*).

By writing this document we intend to help third-parties do
security analyses of any given PELD and specifically of T(A)ILS.
We also wish to help establish best practices in
the field of PELD design and implementation, and thus raise the
baseline for all similar projects out there.

This document is heavily based on preliminary work that was done as
part of [Incognito 2008.1-r1
Documentation](http://www.browseanonymouslyanywhere.com/incognito/uploadfiles/docs.html).
The *Bibliography* section has pointers to other inspiration and reference sources.

# 2 Privacy Enhancing Live Distribution Specification

## 2.1 Intent

### 2.1.1 Privacy on the Internet

The Privacy Enhancing Live Distribution (or PELD for short) aims at providing
a software solution providing the user with the technological means
for using popular Internet technologies while maintaining the privacy
of the user, in particular with respect to anonymity. While there are
different techniques and services providing that functionality, this
specification will assume the usage of [The Tor™
Project](https://www.torproject.org/)'s state-of-the-art anonymizing
overlay network Tor.

### 2.1.2 Protection from post-mortem forensics

The PELD aims at protecting the user from post-mortem analysis
(forensics) of the equipment (notably storage media and memory) he or
she runs the PELD on:

- No trace must be left on local storage devices unless the user
  explicitly asks for it: the PELD must take care not to use any
  filesystem or swap volume that might exist on the host machine hard
  drives.
- The usage of encrypted removable storage devices (such as USB
  sticks) should be encouraged.
- Volatile memory should be erased on shutdown to prevent memory
  forensics such as [[!wikipedia cold boot attack]].
- Secure erasure of files and free disk space should be made easy.

### 2.1.3 Working on sensitive documents

The PELD aims at providing a "safe" environment to produce and
optionally publish sensitive documents. While the combination of
anonymous access to the Internet and resistance against future
equipment analysis does most of the job, some application-level
attacks deserve special treatment: e.g. tools needed to inspect and
cleanup metadata -such as EXIF data- in files should be available.

### 2.1.4 Portability

The PELD is supposed to be self-contained and portable (literally, not
necessarily with respect to code portability), and thus possible to
run in as many computing environments as possible from the same single
distribution. In addition, while the PELD's main objective indeed is
to act as a traditional Live Distribution (i.e. a [[!wikipedia Live_CD]] or
[[!wikipedia Live_USB]]) it should also be compatible with popular
virtual machine technologies for users who simply want a sandboxed
environment within their usual operating system.

### 2.1.5 Target user

The PELD's target user is the average user in terms of computer
literacy; he or she does not necessarily control fully the computer
being used. Examples would be a public computer
in a library, coffee shop, university or a residence. We assume that
the target user does not want to do any of the configurations (at least with
respect to security and anonymity) of the various applications and
tools used themselves, either because of insufficient knowledge, lack
of interest or other reasons. The PELD should provide strong anonymity
with no need of advanced configuration whatsoever. It should be made
as difficult as possible for the user to unknowingly compromise
anonymity.

### 2.1.6 Summary

In short, the PELD aims at providing privacy on computers and on the
Internet for anyone anywhere.

## 2.2 Threat model

The goal of staying anonymous and keeping sensitive information
protected stands in direct conflict with the goals of several entities
"present" on the Internet. The following threat model is meant to
describe the intentions and capabilities of such hypothetical
attackers.

### 2.2.1 The goal of the attacker

The adversary may have one or more goals among the following ones.

- **Identify or locate the user, track his or her activities on the Internet**: information such
  as the User-Agent HTTP header, locale and especially IP address can all be used in
  various degrees to identify or locate the user, and to track his or
  her activities on the Internet.
- **Eavesdrop on sensitive data**: the Tor network only prevents the
  data from being traced (according to Tor's threat model) but does not
  protect it from eavesdropping.
- **Post-mortem user activity and sensitive data recovery (forensics)**:
  "normal" operating systems keep a lot of traces about their users'
  Internet activities (notably browser cache, cookies and history) on local
  storage media; similary, working on a sensitive document with a
  "normal" operating system is very likely to leave traces of this
  document. The adversary may want to recover such information by
  analyzing the equipment that has been used.

### 2.2.2 Capabilities, methods and other means of the attacker

The adversary may have capabilities needed to perform the following
attacks.

- **Eavesdropping and content injection**: it is assumed that the
  adversary is non-global and has full control over the network
  traffic of some portion of the Internet (e.g. some Tor exit nodes,
  upstream routers of exit nodes, or the ISP that provides the
  Internet connection the user is sitting behind). The adversary is
  thus able to eavesdrop, modify, delete or delay parts or all of the
  user's traffic on the Internet.
- **Bypass attacks**: it is conceivable for attackers to mount attacks
  which bypass the proxy and DNS setup in the applications which could
  then be used to identify the user, either by injecting data or
  social engineering.
- **Exploit software vulnerabilities**: the attacker might be able to
  run arbitrary code by exploiting vulnerabilities present
  in any of the software packages installed.
- **Application level attacks**: the attacker can utilize certain
  applications' services and features to get identifying information.
  Examples are JavaScript and Java applets in web browsers, CTCP
  queries in IRC clients, etc.
- **Physical access, live monitoring, post-mortem equipment
  analysis**: some users face adversaries with intermittent or
  constant physical access to the equipment they use.
  Users in Internet cafes, for example, face
  such a threat. This means the adversary might be physically
  monitoring the computer while the PELD is running on it. Moreover
  the adversary might raid the user at any moment and then confiscate
  and analyse the equipment, storage media and memory in particular.

## 2.3 Distribution

The PELD should be distributed in a common format that can easily be
used to install the PELD on the selected medium. For instance, if
distributed as an ISO 9660 compatible image file it can be burned to a
CD with almost any CD recording software available.

Also, it is recommended to make it possible for end-users to verify
the downloaded PELD image's integrity using public key cryptography.

## 2.4 Operational requirements

This section handles mostly the criteria that the PELD should be
portable and able to run in as many environments as possible. It also
deals with issues such as virus infections and leaving traces.

### 2.4.1 Platform

The binaries should all be executable on the most common computer
hardware architecture(s). As of 2011, the x86 computer architecture
seems to be the obvious choice as the vast majority of personal
computers in use is compatible with it. Supporting the PowerPC
architecture is a welcome bonus in order to support pre-Intel Apple
computers.

### 2.4.2 Media

The PELD should be able to boot and run natively from either a CD or a
USB drive. While running the PELD in native mode it should be completely
independent from the host operating system and all other storage media
on the host computer unless the user explicitly tries to access any of
them.

In all circumstances, binaries, dynamic libraries and other executable
code susceptible to virus infections and similar should always be
completely write-protected, even when running from a writeable USB
medium. Such files should not even be modifiable temporarily, which
could be the case even when running from CD if the filesystem is
loaded into memory (e.g. tmpfs).

Configuration files, temporary files, user home directories and
similar files that most likely need to be modifiable during operation
should only be saved temporarily in memory (e.g. by use of something
like tmpfs or unionfs).

It is tempting to use the possibility to write back data when
running from USB in order to allow user settings to be
persistent. If this is considered, this feature should be optional and
offer the possibility to use strong encryption for the persistent
storage.

### 2.4.3 Virtual machines

As an alternative to running the PELD natively from a CD or USB, it
should also be possible to run it inside virtual machines.

Running the PELD is such a virtualized environment provides weakened
security compared to running it natively. This drawback is due to the
dependency on the host OS. When the PELD runs as a guest OS:

- The PELD cannot defend against keyloggers, viruses and other malware
  that could be present in the host OS. The user activities in the
  PELD might thus be under surveillance by an attacker who would
  control the host OS enough.
- The PELD can not guarantee anything with respect to writing to local
  storage: the host OS does its own memory management and can write to
  swap any part of the memory being used by the PELD without the user
  being told.

On the other hand, running the PELD inside a virtual machine is useful
in situations where the user is not in a position to run the PELD
natively, which often is the case with public computers.
Additionally, many users seem to prefer this mode of operation and
would prefer to use their usual operating system instead of rebooting
to run the PELD natively; that alone is a reason for making sure it
works.

## 2.5 Other considerations

### 2.5.1 Maintainability

The procedure to update the PELD should not be prohibitive to provide
timely software updates that address issues related to security or
anonymity. A scripted, automatic build procedure is greatly preferred
to manually setting up things.

### 2.5.2 Sustainability

PELD development should be a team work rather than a one person work,
and the deep knowledge of this work should be shared among the team
members. Thus the development infrastructure should be designed and
deployed in order to share this knowledge.

### 2.5.3 Open-source transparency, easing peer review

For the sake of transparency the use of open-source software is
encouraged. Binary blobs should only be used when no good alternative
exists, which could be the case with certain hardware drivers or driver
firmwares.

Having third-parties analyze the PELD security is necessary to ensure
it is working as intended. It is thus recommended for the PELD itself
to be open-source. Moreover decisions with non-trivial implications
should be clearly and publicly documented: such information about what
a PELD implementation intends to achieve and how it does so should be
made available to reviewers.

Third-parties should be able to reproduce a PELD
implementation by building it from the released source code and
publicly available information. The process should yield consistent
results.

### 2.5.4 Easy feedback

In order to collect bug reports and wanted features, the PELD
project should offer easy ways for end-users to provide feedback to the
developers (email, web forum, bug tracker, shipped-within application,
...). Efforts should be made to offer the most anonymous (or at least
pseudonymous) possible way to send this feedback.

## 2.6 Implementation requirements

### 2.6.1 Kernel requirements

The role of the kernel is mainly to provide support for the features
required elsewhere in this specification. This includes:

- **Good hardware support**: "good" is a sketchy word in a
  specification. The general idea is to include as much drivers for
  relevant hardware as possible, in particular for network cards
  (wired and wireless), video adapters and anything necessary for basic
  operation.
- **Support for a stateful firewall with packet filtering
  capabilities**: it must somehow be able to sort traffic out
  for transparent proxying (mentioned in the
  next section) to work. Similarly, it must be able to identify and
  drop traffic destined to the Internet that is not supported by the
  Tor network, such as transport layer protocols other than TCP.
- **Security features**: with the dangers of exploitable
  vulnerabilities in any code running, attempts to mitigate these on
  the kernel level is a good idea. Executable space protection with
  the NX bit, address space layout randomization and similar
  techniques are all interesting in this respect. Access control in
  the form of Mandatory Access Control, Role-Based Access control and
  so on should also be considered.

### 2.6.2 Network requirements

#### 2.6.2.1 Firewall

In order to prevent accidental leaks of information, proxy bypass
attacks on Tor and similar, the access to the Internet should be
heavily restricted by a firewall:

- All non-TCP transport layer protocols should be dropped as they are
  not supported by the Tor network.
- All TCP traffic not explicitly targeting Tor should be redirected to
  the transparent proxy (i.e. to the `TransPort` as set in `torrc`).
- All DNS lookups should be made through the Tor network (i.e.
  redirected to `DNSPort` as set in `torrc`).
- All IPv6 traffic must be forbidden as it is not supported by the Tor
  network.

Note that the above is not necessary (or desirable) for local network
(RFC1918) addresses; it is recommended to special-case DNS queries
though as some home gateways and captive wifi portals reply the public
IP provided by the ISP when one asks information about themselves to
their DNS resolver (source: [The State of the DNS and Tor Union (also:
a DNS UDP
- TCP shim)](http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Jul-2010/msg00007.html)
thread on the or-talk mailing-list).

Any exception to these rules must be thoroughly thought through and
properly documented.

#### 2.6.2.2 Fingerprinting

Efforts should be made to make it harder to fingerprint PELD users *as
being using the PELD*. Considering this goal can conflict with others,
trying to reach perfection in this domain is not necessarily
reasonable.

### 2.6.3 User interface and applications

#### 2.6.3.1 General user interface

The user should be able to do all relevant things with easy-to-use
graphical interfaces. The PELD should present a solid,
user-friendly desktop environment with all the expected features after
booting: file management, system settings configuration, support
applications etc.

#### 2.6.3.2 Internet applications

At least clients for the following Internet activities must be
supported:

- **Web browsing**: since the web browser is arguably the most used
  end-user Internet application as well as the one that offers the
  largest attack surface, the Tor Project has spent significant
  resources on analyzing and mitigating the many pitfalls of modern
  web browsers with respect to anonymity: media plugins,
  browser-specific bugs, web technologies such as JavaScript, CSS and
  cookies, etc. Benefiting
  from this work is essential for maintaining anonymity, so it is
  required to include only web browsers that are endorsed by the Tor
  Project, accompanied with any configurations, extensions/plug-ins,
  etc. that they recommend (for instance, Firefox with the Torbutton
  extension). The T(A)ILS browser fingerprint must make the PELD users
  appear uniformly among Tor users with generally recommended
  configuration, such as Torbutton users.
- **Email**: support for PGP or S/MIME is highly recommended. Also,
  beware that the EHLO/HELO sent to the SMTP-server will contain the
  host's IP address in many email clients. The `Message-ID` headers and
  HTML/JavaScript email support are other usual leaking spots that
  should be taken care of.
- **Instant messaging**, including IRC and XMPP.
- **Secure Shell** client such as [OpenSSH](http://www.openssh.org/).

Other recommended clients for Internet activities include:

- **P2P file-sharing** such as BitTorrent: note,
  however, that large scale file-sharing activity in general is
  frowned upon in the Tor community as it consumes extreme amounts of
  network resources compared to other kinds of services.
- **Collaborative text editing** such as [Gobby](http://gobby.0x539.de).
- **Remote desktop** such as VNC or RDP.
- **Feed aggregator** for RSS/RDF, Atom and other widely spread feed
  formats.

Given that these applications will be the user's interface to the
Internet, they should be chosen and configured cautiously, and with
security in mind. In general, as little information as
possible should leak about the user, the applications used and the
system settings.

#### 2.6.3.3 Document production applications

At least the following media and text production tasks should be
possible using software shipped by the PELD:

- **Word processing**
- **Bitmap and vector graphics**
- **Sound recording and editing**
- **Desktop publishing**
- **Printing and scanning**

Other recommended tools include:

- **Video editor**
- **Spreadsheet**
- **Presentation software**
- **Gettext catalogs (.po files) editor**

These applications should be compatible with widely spread file formats in
their domain.

#### 2.6.3.4 Cryptographic tools

Tools for securely signing, verifying, encrypting and decrypting files
and messages should be available. In particular, some implementation of
OpenPGP should be included as it is the de-facto standard
for these tasks in the Free Software world. GUIs for managing keys and performing
the relevant cryptographic tasks should be available. The OpenPGP
implementation should be pre-configured to use an encrypted tunnel
when connecting to a keyserver (read: `hkps://`). Also, it should by
default use up-to-date digests, ciphers and key sizes with respect to
the current commonly agreed best practices.

Tools for creating and using encrypted storage containers are also recommended.

#### 2.6.3.5 Tor

Tor should be setup to enable its DNS server (`DNSPort`) and transparent
proxy (`TransPort`, `TransListen`) so the functionality specified in the
network section is covered. Since Tor really is at the core of the
PELD only stable releases should be considered. Also, while there are
many other interesting configuration possibilities in the Tor manual,
none of those that impair anonymity or security should be enabled.

A GUI Tor controller application such as Vidalia or TorK is highly
recommended. However, this requires opening the control port in Tor,
and thus some means of authentication will be required
(`CookieAuthentication` preferably) to hinder attacks on the Tor
software.

#### 2.6.3.6 Hardened tool chain and compiling

As an addition to the security against exploitable vulnerabilities
provided by the kernel, compiling software with stack smashing
protection, address space layout randomization and similar compiler
security enhancements is recommended. Note that in some circumstances
compiler-level options are necessary to take advantage of in-kernel security
features. Thus the use of a hardened tool chain might depend on the
vendor distribution used to build the PELD upon. If such techniques are
not widely deployed at this level, using them to build the PELD
can require a lot
of time from its developers and impact its ease of maintenance,
which would make it harder for new contributors to get involved in the
project. For this reason, compile-time hardening features should be
carefully selected to balance the costs they impose against the extra
security they bring. If using a hardened tool chain to build the PELD
is deemed to require too much energy, resources could be better spent
pushing usage of such hardening features in the base operating system.

#### 2.6.3.7 "Virtual" input system

Since one goal of the PELD is to permit usage of untrusted computers while
preserving anonymity, measures should be taken against hardware that
might de-anonymize or facilitate recording of a user, such as hardware 
[keyloggers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keylogger). Thus a virtual
keyboard (usable with the mouse) should be available.

#### 2.6.3.8 Entropy

Some crucial applications of the PELD, such as the Tor client, make
heavy use of cryptographic techniques and therefore rely on a high
quality pseudo-random number generator (PRNG). Initializing
(seeding) a PRNG is tricky in a Live system context as the system
state after boot, if not fully deterministic, is parameterized by far
fewer variables than in the case of a non-Live system.

Using an auxiliary entropy source such as
[haveged](http://www.irisa.fr/caps/projects/hipsor/) should thus be
considered.

### 2.6.4 Usability

**FIXME**: information must be available to the user, explaining what
the PELD goals are. The PELD is no magic wand.

Security is usually hard to get. Therefore steps need to be taken in
order to make users more comfortable with the PELD, and also to
educate users about specific risks and non-intuitive situations that
may affect their anonymity on the Internet.

#### 2.6.4.1 Internationalization

The user should be able to easily select his or her language of
preference. User applications should be localized to fit this
preference, as should system settings such as keyboard layout.

The PELD documentation, either online or shipped within, should be
easily translatable. Software written specifically for the PELD should
be developed with i18n/l10n-awareness in mind.

#### 2.6.4.2 Education and user help

The PELD should include an easy-to-read document explaining how to
securely use it and the bundled software. As the user is assumed to only have
the knowledge of an average computer user, it will be required to
explain some general security concepts.

Real-world experience demonstrates that the average user quite rarely
thinks about upgrading his or her PELD copy, and is often pretty happy
unknowingly running an obsolete version affected by numerous well-known security
issues. A PELD running copy should therefore notice it is affected by
known security issues and notify the user if a newer release fixes
some.

# 3 Implementation

T(A)ILS is an implementation of the PELD specification above. It is
licensed under the GNU GPL version 3 or (at your option) any later
version.

**FIXME**: add link to Incognito's and Tor Browser Bundle's homepages.

Critical parts of the configuration are based on the ones from
well-known and trusted sources, namely Incognito and the Tor Browser
Bundle. This is for example the case for the firewall, polipo and Tor
configurations.

**NOTICE**: this distribution is provided as-is with no warranty of
fitness for a particular purpose, including total anonymity. Anonymity
depends not only on the software but also on the user understanding
the risks involved and how to manage those risks.

## 3.1 Download

See the [[download section|download]] on [[T(A)ILS's website|/index]]
for download information. Published T(A)ILS images integrity can be
checked using OpenPGP detached signatures made with a key that is well
linked to the web-of-trust.

The sources are stored in a bunch of [Git](http://git-scm.com/)
repositories. The [[git page|git]] on the T(A)ILS website provides all
needed information to access these repositories.

The latest version of this document can be found on the T(A)ILS
website: [[!tails_website contribute/design]].

## 3.2 Software

T(A)ILS ships the following software. This list is not complete,
but only contains packages deemed as important for whatever reason.
The full packages list can be found in the [BitTorrent files download
directory](/torrents/files/) (look for files with the `.packages`
extension), and the [[features]] page has yet another list.

### 3.2.1 Core software
 
- [Debian GNU/Linux](http://www.debian.org/): the base operating
  system, provides hardware detection, infrastructure. Please note
  that the Debian distribution does not provide or endorse T(A)ILS.
- [Tor](http://www.torproject.org/): anonymizing overlay network for
  TCP. Our intention is to always use the latest stable version.
- [polipo](http://www.pps.jussieu.fr/%7Ejch/software/polipo/):
  Caching web proxy.
- [pdnsd](http://www.phys.uu.nl/%7Erombouts/pdnsd.html): caching DNS
  proxy. Configured to forward lookups through Tor.
- [Vidalia](https://www.torproject.org/projects/vidalia) is used
  to control Tor's behavior.

Being based in Debian, T(A)ILS benefits from its great package
management tools, facilitating its build and the inclusion of new
software. Sadly compile time options that would enhance T(A)ILS
security (`-fPIE`, `-fPIC`, `-fstack-protector` etc.) are not widely
used in Debian yet. Thus having them included in T(A)ILS would require
to recompile every package with the right compile-time options. This
would badly impact the development and build efforts required to
release T(A)ILS. This is the reason T(A)ILS kernel has no more special
kernel security feature than the stock Debian kernel.

As an alternative, efforts have been started to push usage of such
hardening features in Debian.

### 3.2.2 Virtual keyboard

T(A)ILS ships with the [onBoard](https://launchpad.net/onboard)
virtual keyboard as a countermeasure against hardware keyloggers.

### 3.2.3 Other applications

- [[!debpkg Iceweasel]]: the [Firefox](http://www.firefox.com/) web
  browser
  [rebranded](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Iceweasel)
  by Debian for trademark reasons.
- [Torbutton](https://www.torproject.org/torbutton/) offers all kind of
  protection against non-HTML anonymity attacks.
* [Claws Mail](http://www.claws-mail.org/): email client with
  user-friendly GnuPG support.
* [Pidgin](http://www.pidgin.im/): instant messaging software
  preconfigured with [OTR](http://www.cypherpunks.ca/otr/index.php)
  for Off-the-Record Messaging.
- [GNOME](http://www.gnome.org): intuitive and attractive desktop
  environment.
- [cryptsetup](http://code.google.com/p/cryptsetup/) ensures storage
  encryption using [LUKS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LUKS).
- [GnuPG](http://gnupg.org): complete and free implementation of the
  OpenPGP standard.
- [haveged](http://freshmeat.net/projects/haveged) feeds /dev/random
  using HArdware Volatile Entropy Gathering and Expansion algorithm.
- [macchanger](http://www.alobbs.com/macchanger) allows
  manipulating the MAC address of network interfaces.
- [secure-delete](http://www.thc.org): tool to securely wipe data from files,
  swap or memory.
- [OpenOffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org/),
  [Gimp](http://www.gimp.org/), [Inkscape](http://www.inkscape.org/),
  [Scribus](http://www.scribus.net),
  [Audacity](http://audacity.sourceforge.net/),
  [XSane](http://www.xsane.org/) and
  [SANE](http://www.sane-project.org/): media and text production
  software.
- [Exiv2](http://www.exiv2.org): EXIF/IPTC metadata manipulation tool.

## 3.3 Internationalization

The following locales are installed. Their number is limited by size
constraints but more could be added on user's request.

- ar, ar_EG.UTF-8 (Arabic, Egyptian Arabic)
- de, de_DE.UTF-8 (German)
- es, es_ES.UTF-8 (Castellano)
- en_US, en_US.UTF-8 (American English)
- fr, fr_FR.UTF-8 (French)
- it, it_IT.UTF-8 (Italian)
- pt, pt_PT.UTF-8 (Portuguese)
- ru, ru_RU.UTF-8 (Russian)
- zh, zh_CN.UTF-8 (Chinese)

The chosen locale's files are compiled at boot time.

See [[!tails_gitweb config/amnesia]] for the available languages. See
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-preseed/localepurge]] and grep the source for
`AMNESIA_SUPPORTED_LANGUAGES` to see how this configuration is applied.

## 3.4 Notification of security issues and new T(A)ILS release

Shipped in T(A)ILS is a script that checks at each desktop start if
security issues or new T(A)ILS releases are published on the website. If
some are found, a notification is printed on the desktop. This
application is internationalized.

- [[!tails_gitweb chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-security-check]]

## 3.5 Feedback

Users can send feedback in several ways to T(A)ILS developers. A [[bug
tracker|/bugs]] and a [[forum|/forum]] are available on the website.
Users can also send email to the private [developers mailing
list](amnesia@boum.org). A dedicated application called *WhisperBack*
is also available in every running T(A)ILS copy. WhisperBack allows
users to send anonymous or pseudonymous feedback via OpenPGP-encrypted
email. It is configured in T(A)ILS to use a Tor hidden service run by
T(A)ILS developers as the outgoing SMTP server. WhiperBack only sends
email over a STARTTLS session after carefully verifying the remote
SMTP SSL certificate. Some minimal information about the system is
gathered and sent along with the report; the reporting user can
opt-out of this though. Users can also provide an email address and a
OpenPGP public key in case further discussion is needed to address the
reported issue. WhisperBack's graphical interface fully supports
internationalization and is ready to be translated.

Note that the WhisperBack source code is not easily available yet; on
the other hand it is written in the Python interpreted language, so
the binary Debian package that can be found in T(A)ILS source
repository contains the whole WhisperBack source code in human-read
form.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-packages/]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/whisperback/]]

## 3.6 Configuration

In this section we briefly present the setup of several key software
packages and system settings of T(A)ILS with respect to security and
anonymity. There are of course other minor tweaks here and there, but
those are mainly for usability issues and similar.

### 3.6.1 The Tor™ software

The Tor software is currently configured as a client only. The client
listens on SOCKS port 9050 with a control port 9051 (using cookie
authentication), as a transparent proxy on port 9040 and as a DNS
server on port 8853. Only connections from localhost are accepted. It
can be argued that running a Tor server would increase one's anonymity for
a number for reasons but we still feel that most users probably would
not want this due to the added consumption of bandwidth.
 
- [[!tails_gitweb chroot_local-includes/etc/tor/torrc]]

### 3.6.3 DNS

[[!inline pages="contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/DNS" raw=yes]]

### 3.6.4 HTTP Proxy

[[!inline pages="contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/Proxy" raw=yes]]

### 3.6.5 SOCKS libraries

tsocks and torify are installed. Note that it is unnecessary with the
Linux network filter (see below) and the local DNS server to torify
applications. This is done at a lower level. These tools are solely
here due to dependencies and configured for completeness.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/tor/tor-tsocks.conf]]

### 3.6.6 Network Filter

[[!inline pages="contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/Network_filter" raw=yes]]

### 3.6.7 Random MAC Address

It is planned to anonymize the network interfaces MAC address in a
later T(A)ILS version. See the related [[design
document|design/MAC_address]] and [[todo item|todo/macchanger]].

### 3.6.8 Iceweasel

(Note: Iceweasel is the name of the web browser, based on Mozilla
Firefox, that is shipped by Debian and thus by T(A)ILS.)

Iceweasel uses Torbutton in order to prevent attacks using JavaScript,
plugins and other non-HTTP features like web bugs. It is configured to
always be enabled on Iceweasel start and uses polipo as HTTP(s) proxy
and Tor as SOCKS proxy. SOCKS is configured to perform name resolution
through the proxy. Iceweasel is also configured to not cache to disk
(mainly to reduce memory usage for CD users as disk writes will be
stored there), history is disabled (just in case) and many other things. It is also setup
not to automatically check for updates of its installed extensions.
Java support is disabled.

Iceweasel is shipped with some extensions to help users into managing
their browsing experience. The
[CS Lite](https://addons.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/addon/5207/)
extension treats all cookies as session cookies by default, and
provides more fine-grained cookie control for users who need it. This
prevents the known leak of browsing informations cookies can lead to.
The [Adblock plus](https://addons.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/addon/1865/)
extension protects against many tracking possibilities by
removing most ads. The [firegpg](http://getfiregpg.org/) plugin allows
users to use GnuPG inside websites like webmails. The development branch
additionally ships the
[foxyproxy](https://addons.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/addon/2464/)
extension that brings FTP support back into Iceweasel
(workarounds [[bugs/FTP_does_not_work_in_iceweasel]]) and allows
visiting eepsites via [[I2P|design/I2P]] (not Tor!).

Thanks to Torbutton, Iceweasel is configured so that T(A)ILS browser
fingerprint appears uniformly among Torbutton users. Until T(A)ILS
0.6.1, EN-US locale spoofing was disabled, which partitioned T(A)ILS
users into eight sets; this behavior has been reversed in the
development branch.

Torbutton is also configured to spoof the timezone settings the same
way as the Tor Browser Bundle does, i.e. to `UTC+00:00`. Note that
this is a development branch novelty as T(A)ILS relies on Torbutton's
protection against location leakage until 0.6.1.

The Iceweasel config is poorly commented but the Git history
explains it all; any other relevant settings may thus be investigated
by looking in there.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/iceweasel/]]

### 3.6.9 Claws Mail

Claws Mail generates `Message-ID` headers using the hostname part of
the sender's email address, which does not leak usage of the PELD nor
any user location information.

It also always says `EHLO localhost` to the SMTP server instead of
disclosing the real IP address and hostname.

Furthermore, the accounts that a user will create are pre-configured
to not use HTML to get rid of a whole class of privacy concerns.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/skel/.claws-mail/]] is copied to
  the user's `$HOME` at boot time

### 3.6.10 Pidgin

**FIXME**: CTCP?

Pidgin is configured to not log anything as well as not to reveal too
much of user activity by disabling reporting of online/away/typing
status. MSN protocol
support is disabled, to avoid the usage of such a privacy flawed and
buggy plugin. The Off-the-record plugin is enabled to help one-to-one
conversations being as private and unrecordable as possible. A script
generates at each boot a random nick to be used on the preconfigured IRC
servers, by randomly picking up a firstname from the 2000 most registered by the
U.S. social security administration in the 70s and appending it a random
number between 0 and 100.

### 3.6.11 Host system swap

T(A)ILS takes care not to use any swap filesystem that might exist on
the host machine hard drive. Most of this is done at build time: not
only the `/sbin/swapon` binary is replaced by a fake no-op script, but
the init script responsible for mounting swap at boot (provided by
live-boot) is removed. Also, live-boot's `swapon` option is not set.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-hooks/03-noswap]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-hooks/05-disable_swapon]]

### 3.6.12 Host system RAM

**Beware!** This feature is currently known to be sometimes
[[buggy|bugs/buggy_smem_on_shutdown]] when running from CD.

In order to protect against memory forensics, the system RAM is
securely wiped when T(A)ILS is being shutdown. The software doing this
is smem, part of the [secure-delete](http://www.thc.org/) package.
This process can take a while. If T(A)ILS was booted from a CD it
should eject, and if it was booted from a USB drive it can be removed
once prompted. In either case the user can leave the computer and let
it finish on its own, or simply turn it off if he or she is not
worried about this attack.

- [[!tails_live-boot_gitweb debian/live-boot.init]]

### 3.6.13 Host system disks and partitions

T(A)ILS takes care not to use any filesystem that might exist on
the host machine hard drive, unless explicitly told to do so by the
user. The Debian Live persistence feature is disabled by passing
`nopersistent` over the kernel command line to live-boot.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/amnesia]]

*Nota bene*: removable drives are automatically mounted until T(A)ILS
0.6.1. This behavior is disabled in the development branch.

### 3.6.14 Secure erasure of files and free disk space

Securely erasing files and free disk space is made easy integrating
[secure-delete](http://www.thc.org) tools into the Nautilus file
manager.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/nautilus-sfill]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/nautilus-wipe]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/live/config/202-localize]]

### 3.6.15 Passwords

Two users are intended to be used for logins: `amnesia`
and `root`. Both have `amnesia` set as a password, and the `amnesia`
user is allowed to gain super user privileges, without providing a
password, using `sudo`.

The user will remove the CD/USB when done and there should be no
services allowing logins from the network, but still: we are aware of
the security risks involved by password-less sudo and are [[working on
it|todo/better_root_access_control]].

As a first step the next major T(A)ILS release will stop grant `sudo`
privileges to the `amnesia` user; a root console will be available for
two minutes after boot: this leaves the user 2 minutes to set a root
password. Unless this is done before this delay has expired, the root
console will be disabled, and no root access will be possible afterwards.

## 3.7 Running T(A)ILS in virtual machines

### 3.7.1 Current support

T(A)ILS may of course be run in virtual machines. Due to the
popularity of [VMWare](http://www.vmware.com/) we include
[open-vm-tools](http://open-vm-tools.sourceforge.net/) (an open-source
alternative to VMware tools) as well as special video drivers
for an improved user experience in that environment. Due to the
closed-source nature of VMWare we try to encourage users of open VMs,
like [VirtualBox](http://virtualbox.org/) and
[QEMU](http://www.qemu.org/), by making sure that
these also work. In the case of VirtualBox both video and input
drivers are included, as well as the guest utilities.

### 3.7.2 Security concerns

Security concerns for all VMs are numerous. T(A)ILS therefore tries to
detect whether it is run inside a VM and [[warns the
user|design/virtualization_support]] if it is.

### 3.7.3 Running T(A)ILS inside a Windows session

[[Ongoing work|todo/virtualization_support]] will make it easier to
run the CD/USB in a virtual machine inside a Windows session whenever
native boot is impossible or not desirable. This probably will be
implemented by shipping a [QEMU](http://www.qemu.org/) or
[VirtualBox](http://www.virtualbox.org/) binary for Microsoft Windows.

## 3.8 Build process and maintenance

The [Debian Live](http://live.debian.net/) is a toolkit to build Live
systems based on Debian, such as T(A)ILS. Debian Live is
designed to automate the build process of the target distribution,
which also makes it easy to maintain.

For detailed instructions on how to build and modify T(A)ILS, see
[[build]] and [[contribute]] on the wiki.

Keeping the following applications up to date is a priority:

- Tor (stable releases only);
- Vidalia.

Remaining applications, including the base system, will be updated
using Debian standard upgrade process, and generally based on the
latest Debian stable release so there are not many problems.

## 3.9 Hardware support

T(A)ILS ships the latest kernel from [Debian
Backports](http://backports.debian.org) as a compromise between
stability and recent hardware support.

The x86 hardware architecture is the main supported one but work is
ongoing to additionally support the PowerPC architecture.

## 3.10 Caveats

T(A)ILS currently offers almost no protection against Live physical
monitoring, except for hardware keyloggers.

UDP and IPv6 are a problem. The Tor network does not support any of
those yet. Outgoing UDP and IPv6 packets are dropped altogether by
netfilter for this reason.

Also, an easy (read: not command-line based) way to [[install and
upgrade T(A)ILS on USB sticks|todo/usb_install_and_upgrade]] is
needed.

Some optional bits of [[todo/persistence]] would be welcome and help
spreading strong public key cryptography and authentication amongst
T(A)ILS users (OpenPGP, [[todo/Monkeysphere]]).

Providing an easy-to-use tool to inspect and cleanup meta-data in
files (e.g. before they are published on the Web) would help any PELD
implementation to achieve its mission. Such software is being designed
and should be implemented at some point.

See the development [[contribute/roadmap]] for more information about where
T(A)ILS is heading to.

# 4 Security analysis

(It would be great to have links to peer reviews here.)

# 5 Bibliography

- [Incognito 2008.1-r1
Documentation](http://www.browseanonymouslyanywhere.com/incognito/uploadfiles/docs.html)
- [Live CD Best
  Practices](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/TheOnionRouter/LiveCDBestPractices)
  document on the Tor wiki
- Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson and Paul Syverson. [Tor: The
  Second-Generation Onion
  Router](https://svn.torproject.org/svn/projects/design-paper/tor-design.pdf)
- Mike Perry. [Torbutton Design
  Documentation](https://www.torproject.org/torbutton/en/design/index.html.en)
