
Allowed Access
==============

The HTTP Proxy is set to 127.0.0.1 on port 4444 with an exception made for
http://127.0.0.1 which does not go through the proxy. With this set-up, only eepsites (`.i2p`
TLD), offline Tails documentation, and the router console are acessible from I2P Browser.

Also, do note that Tails' [[netfilter-based
blocking|Tor_enforcement/Network_filter]] ensures that no Internet
traffic can escape I2P (and thus be non-anonymous), even if something is
wrong in the above filters (or a future revision).

Ports allowed through the firewall
==================================

I2P is shipped with several preconfigured tunnels, and the ports used have had
exceptions added to ferm. The ports accessible by the i2pbrowser user include:

* 4444, I2P HTTP Proxy: Used to access sites with the `.i2p` TLD
* 7657, I2P router console: The router console is accessible in the web browser at <http://127.0.0.1:7657>
* 7658, local 'eepsite': Each I2P installation is configured out of the box
  with the possibility to host one's own website (or *eepsite*) on the I2P
  network. The eepsite will not be acessible remotely unless its
  [tunnel](http://127.0.0.1:7657/i2ptunnel#localServerTunnelList) is started.

Note: These ports will only be opened if the user explicitly requests I2P at the boot prompt.
See [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/ferm/ferm.conf]] for details.

Security
========

The I2P Browser is run by a separate `i2pbrowser` user, which is only allowed
to make TCP connections to the ports explicitly mentioned above.  DNS lookups
are prohibited.

The I2P Browser is run inside a chroot consisting of a throw away
aufs union between a read-only version of the pre-boot Tails
filesystem, and a tmpfs as the rw branch. Hence, the post-boot
filesystem (which contains all user data) isn't available to the
I2P Browser within the chroot. The chroot and aufs union is created
upon I2P Browser start, and is torn down after it exits, forcefully
killing any remaining processes run from inside it.

It should be noted that chroots are pretty weak jails, so an exploit
could easily escape it and have access to the complete filesystem (as
restricted for the `i2pbrowser` user). Hence, the reason for using a
chroot is not for that purpose, but for separating its configuration from the rest of the Tails system.

Code
----

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/i2p-browser]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/tails-shell-library/chroot-browser.sh]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/tails-shell-library/i2p.sh]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/applications/i2p.desktop.in]]
* [[!tails_gitweb chroot_local-includes/lib/live/config/2080-install-i2p]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-activate-win8-theme]]
