[[!meta title="Incremental upgrades"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

# Rationale

Partial upgrades should provide only what has changed between two
releases (deltas) and have a way to apply those changes to the
previous version. 

At boot-time the security warning telling that a new Tails version is available
should provide an automated way of doing the upgrade.

# Definitions

* **upgrade-description file**: a file that describes the upgrade from
  a given version, to another, newer given version of a software
  product.
* **Incremental Upgrade Kit (IUK)**: a file that contains everything
  needed to upgrade from.
* **full image**: a file that is sufficient to install and run Tails
  (currently, that means an ISO image).
* **target files**: the whole set of files included by reference into
  an upgrade; e.g. this may be an IUK or a full image.

# Roadmap

See [[the blueprint|blueprint/incremental_upgrades]].

<a id="code"></a>

# Code

Most the code needed to implement this design lives in the `iuk` [Git
repository](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/iuk/).

The rest lives in the main Tails [[contribute/Git]] repository:

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/sudoers.d/zzz_upgrade]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/applications/tails-upgrader.desktop]]

# Scenarios

## As a Tails user

### When I boot Tails

The scenarios are described in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]], in the `features/frontend` directory of the `iuk`
[[contribute/Git]] repository, and can be run with pherkin
(see [[contribute/release_process/tails-iuk]] for details).

## As a Tails developer

### When I prepare a point-release

#### I should prepare an IUK

The scenarios about this are described in Cucumber-style, using
[[!cpan Test-BDD-Cucumber]], in the `features/create` directory of the
`iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository. Run the `features/create` to run
them (see [[contribute/release_process/tails-iuk]] for details).

Documentation on how to actually do that is on
[[contribute/release_process#prepare-iuk]].

#### I should test the IUK

Until we have more complete [[!tails_ticket 6090 desc="automated tests"]],
I should manually try to install the IUK as intended on top of the old
version of Tails, and I should check that the resulting system behaves
as it should.

See [[contribute/release_process/test#incremental-upgrades]].

#### I should prepare upgrade-description files

* for the previous release (to announce they may upgrade using the IUK
  that's being prepared)
* for the new release (to announce no upgrade is available)

See [[contribute/release_process#prepare-upgrade-description-files]].

#### I should publish the IUK

See [[contribute/release_process#publish-iuk]].

#### I should publish upgrade-description files

This is done at the same time as the release is announced, by simply
pushing the release Git branch live to master.

### When I prepare a major release

#### I should prepare an upgrade-description file

* for the previous release (to announce they may upgrade using the
  release that's being prepared)
* for the new release (to announce that no upgrade is available)

See [[contribute/release_process#prepare-upgrade-description-files]].

#### I should publish the upgrade-description file

This is done at the same time as the release is announced, by simply
pushing the release Git branch live to master.

# Implementation

## Upgrade paths

To ease implementation, only upgrades to the next closest step
are supported.

E.g. say one has installed Tails 0.11 a while ago, and forgets
about it. We then release Tails 0.11.1, and publish a `0.11_to_0.11.1`
IUK, advertised by the upgrade-description file for 0.11 users. We then
release Tails 0.11.2, and publish a `0.11.1_to_0.11.2` IUK, advertised
by the upgrade-description file for 0.11.1 users. If the user starts
their Tails 0.11, the upgrade system proposes upgrading to 0.11.1.
Say the user accepts, the upgrade is performed, the user reboots, and
the upgrade system now proposes upgrading to 0.11.2.

Allowing to run these two steps in a row, without rebooting, is
mainly a GUI problem, and is postponed.

## Infrastructure

### generate an IUK

We have a `tails-create-iuk` program that takes two Tails full images as input, and:

* builds the "diff" SquashFS
* gets the new kernel(s), initrd(s), bootloader configuration
* brings all this together into a single file, in the IUK format

### Incremental Upgrade Kit

#### IUK format

An IUK is a tar archive, compatible with GNU tar, that contains the
following files:

* `FORMAT`: contains the version of the IUK format (that is *1*), as
  a positive integer encoded in ASCII.
* `control.yml`: YAML associative array with the following keys:
  - `delete_files`: a list of files to delete from the
    system partition.
* zero, one or more `*.tar[.bz2]`: tar archives, compatible with GNU tar, optionally
  compressed with bzip2, that contain the set of files to add to, or
  upgrade in the system partition: kernel(s), initrd(s), bootloader
  configuration, `*.squashfs` (the SquashFS "diff" that must be
  stacked on top of the older SquashFS filesystem(s)), etc.

File paths, both in `*.tar[.bz2]` and in the `delete_files` list, are
relative to the Tails system partition root, and must be compatible
with a FAT32 filesystem.

Tarballs contained in the IUK are meant to be extracted, one after the
other, sorted by ASCII order.

#### Initial implementation details

(This section is not a specification.)

The initial IUK generator will ship those files in every IUK:

* `system.tar` contains files that are already compressed
  (e.g. kernel, initrd, `*.squashfs`)
* `boot.tar.bz2` contains files that are not compressed yet
  (that is: syslinux configuration, modules and utilities)

These are implementation details the IUK installer software must not
rely upon.

### Mirrors infrastructure

Using something like [Mozilla's
channels](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Software_Update:Channels)
(*stable*, *beta*, *nightly*) would e.g. allow us to push beta
upgrades earlier to a brave subset of users. Subscribing to a channel
other than *stable* is something that would be worth
[[persisting|doc/first_steps/persistence]]. We are not likely to
implement a channels system in phase one, but the infrastructure we
set up does leave room for such future extension.

<a id="upgrade-description-files"></a>

### Upgrade-description files

We want the client to get an answer to questions such as "I run
version N of product P on architecture A, what stable release upgrade
is available?". To allow us changing the way the answer is computed in
the future, the amount of work done on the client's side should be
kept to a minimum. So, let's insert a level of indirection, and
pre-compute server-side the answer to the queries we want to support.

The answers are distributed on our HTTP servers in the form of a set
of upgrade-description file files.

#### upgrade-description file URL

* `https://tails.boum.org/upgrade`
* URL schema version (so we can change it in the future), that is `v1`
  to start with.
* product name (e.g. *Tails*, but some day we may have *TailsServer*,
  *TailsHandheld* or whatever)
* product version -- the currently running version to upgrade from,
  e.g. *0.11* or *0.11.1*
* build-target (e.g. *i386*)
* channel (e.g. *stable* or *beta*)
* `upgrade.yml`

Example: <https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/v1/Tails/0.11/i386/beta/upgrades.yml>

Such a file shall be shipped along with its OpenPGP detached signature
(`upgrades.yml.pgp`).

#### upgrade-description file format

An upgrade-description file contains a YAML associative array with the
following top-level keys:

* `product-name`
* `product-version`
* `build-target`
* `channel`
* `upgrades`: a list of upgrade elements.

Each upgrade element is itself an associative array describing an
upgrade to an individual product version, with the following keys:

* `version` -- the version of this upgrade, that is the version of the
  running product after the upgrade is completed and the system
  restarted (e.g. *0.11.1*)
* `type` -- *major* or *minor*
* `details-url` (optional) -- a URL to a web page with more
  information about the specified upgrade (e.g.
  <https://tails.boum.org/news/version_0.11.1/>)
* `upgrade-paths` -- a list of at least one and no more than two
  upgrade path elements.

An upgrade path element describes a set of target files that lives on
a remote server that must all be downloaded and applied to the product
to upgrade it to that version. The keys for an upgrade path element are
as follows:

* `type` -- *full* or *incremental* (IUK are about incremental
  upgrades, but let's make room to announce full images this way too
  at some point)
* `target-files`: a list of target files for this upgrade path.

Every target file element has the following keys:

* `url` -- A URL to the target file.
* `size` -- The size of the upgrade, in bytes.
* `sha256` -- The SHA-256 hash of the patch file, encoded as an
  hexadecimal string. If the client generated value does not match
  this, the integrity check fails after download. (Other kind of
  hashes may be added in a future revision of the upgrade-description
  file format -- which of these multiple hashes the client must verify
  will need to be specified when this happens.)

Example that would be found at
<https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/v1/Tails/0.11.1/i386/stable/upgrades.yml>:

	product-name: Tails
	product-version: 0.11.1
	channel: stable
	build-target: i386
	
	upgrades:
	  - version: 0.11.2
	    type: minor
	    details-url: https://tails.boum.org/news/version_0.11.2/
	    upgrade-paths:
	      - type: incremental
	        target-files:
	          - url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/iuk/Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk
	            size: 37345648
	            sha256: 5c5c47f6155e7807c971251fdad28d5f72ff78db446e43a41e4b900f29229a7d
	      - type: full
	        target-files:
	          - url: http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-0.11.2/Tails-i386-0.11.2.iso
	            size: 762123456
	            sha256: 1015e37e14c6daaecd528b4a841ef6ac2156a5790346d0fd036f9566ce5f641b

### Initial implementation details

This section is not a specification. The URL where the IUK's are
stored, and their file name, may change. If this happens, any
upgrade-description file available on Tails HTTP mirrors, that
references an IUK whose URL changes, must be upgraded accordingly.

#### IUK file basename

An IUK's file basename is not an authoritative source of information
regarding its content. However, it should be unique (among IUKs that
exist on the Tails HTTP servers at a given time).

An IUK's file name is built from these underscore-separated elements,
followed by the `.iuk` suffix:

* product name (e.g. *Tails*)
* build-target (e.g. *i386*)
* product version -- the currently running version to upgrade from,
  e.g. *0.11* or *0.11.1*
* `to`
* the version of this upgrade, that is the version of the running
  product after the upgrade is completed and the system restarted (e.g.
  *0.11.2*)

Example: `Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk`

#### IUK URL

A given IUK is meant to be made available at the URL composed from:

* `http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/iuk/`
* the IUK file basename

Example: <http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/iuk/Tails_i386_0.11.1_to_0.11.2.iuk>

## Client and user interface

The program currently telling that a new Tails version is available
must be upgraded to use upgrade-description files
instead of the current Atom feed.

### upgrade-description downloader and verifier

This program has the responsibility to download and verify an
upgrade-description file.

* Build the URI to its upgrade-description file (might even be done at
  build time and hard-coded into the image) and to its
  cryptographic signature.
* Fetch the upgrade-description file and its signature at these URIs.
* Verify the cryptographic signature of the upgrade-description file.
* Check that content of the upgrade-description file matches the
  currently running system (in terms of product name, product
  version, build-target and channel).
* Once all these steps have been successfully performed, the content
  of the upgrade-description file is trusted to be legit, and is
  returned to the caller as such.

Failure, at any of the above steps, must be reported to the caller.

### upgrade frontend

* The upgrade frontend is run (with password-less sudo) by the desktop
  `amnesia` user, as the dedicated `tails-upgrade-frontend` user that
  has the right to run all other incremental upgrades program as their
  own dedicated user.
* Get a verified upgrade-description file from the upgrade-description
  downloader and verifier.
* Extract information about available upgrades from the
  upgrade-description file.
* Present such information to the user, let them decide if they want
  to perform the upgrade.
* If an incremental upgrade path to the new version is available:
  - securely create a tempdir in `tmpfs`, owned by
    `tails-iuk-get-target-file:tails-iuk-get-target-file`,
    with mode 0750
  - run the IUK downloader and verifier, asking it to drop the
    verified target file into the tempdir (either the default umask
    will do, or steps shall be taken to make sure the
    `tails-install-iuk` user may read the resulting files)
* Else, point at full upgrade documentation.
* Shutdown the network.
* Remount the system partition read-write.
* Perform the upgrade using the files provided by the "target files
  downloader and verifier".
* Tell the user the upgrade process is finished, and they *MUST*
  immediately reboot (due to system partition being left mounted
  read-write, 'cause we cannot remount it read-only once it's been
  mounted read-write).
* The upgrade frontend checks if enough disk space is available on the
  Tails system partition. The (disk space needed / target file size)
  factor was defined experimentally to 3.0 (2.72 fails, 2.8 works, and
  we want some safety margin in case other IUKs are not formed exactly
  the same way). If too little disk space is available, the
  incremental upgrade is not attempted, and the user is pointed at the
  full upgrade path.
* The upgrade frontend is run by a shell wrapper that checks if enough
  free memory is available: we do not want the user to miss upgrades,
  merely because the Tails Upgrader was run in low-memory conditions,
  and could not do its job.

### target file downloader and verifier

This program has the responsibility to download and verify a target
file, and make available to the caller either the verified target
file, or some error message.

* Takes as arguments: URI, size, hash type, hash value, destination
  path where the verified target file should be left, and
  possibly options.

Detailed executable scenarios describe and test the behaviour of this
piece of software in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]]. They may be found in the
`features/download_target_file` directory of the `iuk`
[[contribute/Git]] repository, and run with pherkin
(see [[contribute/release_process/tails-iuk]] for details).

### install an IUK

Once a user has downloaded an IUK, they must have it installed.

We need an installer for IUKs:

* **Input**: the path to an (already verified) IUK.
* **Output**: success or failure (with error message when applicable).

Installing an IUK should happen at the same time as normal Tails
operation, but very carefully, because we need to remount the boot
medium read-write.

* Verify the IUK is in a supported format.
* Remount the boot-medium read-write.
* Extract the IUK archive.
* Move stacked squashfs found in the IUK in place.
* Extract tarballs (`*.tar[.bz2]`) contained in the IUK, one after the
  other, sorted by ASCII order.
* Delete files that are listed in the `delete_files` control field.
* Append the new SquashFS diff file name to the `live/Tails.module`
  file, in the Tails system partition.
* Upgrade syslinux with the binary found in `utils/linux/syslinux` on
  the Tails system partition. Likewise, upgrade the boot device's MBR
  with the one found in `utils/mbr/mbr.bin` on the Tails system
  partition. This ensures that the installed version of syslinux
  matches the version of the COM32 modules that were shipped by the
  IUK.

Detailed executable scenarios describe and test the behaviour of this
piece of software in Cucumber-style, using [[!cpan
Test-BDD-Cucumber]]. They may be found in the `features/install`
directory of the `iuk` [[contribute/Git]] repository, and run
with pherkin
(see [[contribute/release_process/tails-iuk]] for details).

Resources:

* [Mozilla's updates
  processing](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Software_Update:Processing_Updates):
  building up some mechanism (such as their pending / applying /
  succeeded / failed status) to avoid retrying the same buggy upgrade
  in a loop seems worth being considered.

### full upgrade

The Tails installer is still in charge of performing full upgrades.
It deletes any `live/*.squashfs` file other than the one shipped
in the new ISO.

### signature verification

upgrade-description file polling, parsing and verification is
implemented in Perl. Signature verification is made using
`GnuPG::Interface`'s `verify` method.

The verify method is run on a `GnuPG::Interface` object built with
`--homedir` pointed to a dedicated keyring directory, created at Tails
boot or ISO build time, that contains only the Tails signing public
OpenPGP key, which is assigned the minimum level of trust so that
GnuPG trusts the signatures made with the associated private key.

The `verify` method return value is `waitpid`'d for, and the GnuPG
child process exit status examined (zero means verification succeeded,
non-zero means verification failure).

<a id="security"></a>

# Security

We want to use secure upgrade tools such as TUF or Thandy once they are
ready enough for production wrt. our usecases. Unfortunately, this is
not the case yet, and we haven't the resources to seriously contribute
to TUF or Thandy.

Therefore, given we want to have some incremental upgrade system
*soon*, the simple one we will ship in phase one will clearly be less
secure than TUF of Thandy against certain types of attacks.

However, we believe it is at least as secure as the way users are
currently able to manually check if a new Tails version is available,
to download and to verify it. Let's discuss this.

In what follows, we will call "the old Tails upgrade system" the way
users are currently able, as of November 2013, to manually check if
a new Tails version is available, download target files, and verify
their integrity.

## Upgrade-description files

Given:

* upgrade-description files are published on <https://tails.boum.org/>;
  in the old Tails upgrade system, this is the canonical place where
  Tails users can check for upgrades availability.
* The upgrade-description downloader and verifier checks the SSL
  certificate presented by the server is valid (in phase one, using
  simple CA-based validation; using Monkeysphere instead would be
  a great future improvement).

Hence, the trust-path to availability and freshness of
upgrade-description files is as good as with the old Tails
upgrade system.

Moreover, upgrade-description files are signed by the Tails OpenPGP
signing key. Then, the trust-path to the content of upgrade-description
files is better than the old Tails upgrade system.

## Target files

Given:

* Communication to HTTP servers that provide target files is made in
  cleartext (`http://`). No security is to be expected from
  transport-level security here. Mirrors are not trusted anyway.
* Availability, location, hash and size of target files are published
  in upgrade-description files, towards wich some minimal trust-path
  was established (see above).
* In the old Tails upgrade system, target files are signed by the Tails
  OpenPGP signing key.

As a consequence, the availability, freshness and content of target
files is protected as well as it is in the old Tails upgrade system.

## Discussion

**Note**: the attack definitions below come straight from the [TUF
security
documentation](https://www.updateframework.com/wiki/Docs/Security)
(2012-05-04).

We believe the upgrade system described on this page is at least as
secure as the old Tails upgrade system.

### Arbitrary software installation

> An attacker installs anything they want on the client system.
> That is, an attacker can provide arbitrary files in response to
> download requests and the files will not be detected
> as illegitimate.

Both the old and new Tails upgrade systems are immune to this attack,
as long as the trust-path to the upgrade-description file is not
broken, and OpenPGP signatures on the target files are carefully
verified. We have seen above why we believe the trust-path to
upgrade-description files to be at least as secure as the old Tails
upgrade system. In the new Tails upgrade system, OpenPGP signatures are
automatically verified, which provides this kind of protection even to
users would not have checked manually in the context of the old
upgrade system.

### Rollback attacks

> An attacker presents a software upgrade system with older files than
> those the client has already seen, causing the client to use files
> older than those the client knows about.

Given the upgrade-description downloader and verifier checks the
version of the proposed upgrades against the version of the currently
running system, the upgrade system described on this page is immune to
this attack.

### Indefinite freeze attacks

> An attacker continues to present a software upgrade system with the
> same files the client has already seen. The result is that the
> client does not know that new files are available.

Both with the old and new Tails upgrade systems, mounting such an
attack requires either to take control of the Tails website or to
break the SSL/TLS connection between the client and the server.

This attack is slightly mitigated by the fact that we are announcing
new releases in other ways:

* one that does not rely on our website at all (Twitter);
* one that does not rely on our website to be safe at the time Tails
  Upgrader checks for available upgrades, as long as it was safe at
  the time the new release was published (<amnesia-news@boum.org>
  announce mailing-list).

The move to a secure upgrade system, such as TUF, would make this
stronger, thanks to short-lived signatures on meta-data.

### Endless data attacks

> An attacker responds to a file download request with an endless
> stream of data, causing harm to clients (e.g. a disk partition
> filling up or memory exhaustion).

The old Tails upgrade system offers no protection at all against
performing this class of attacks, so the new one cannot do worse.

However, the new Tails upgrade system, by including the expected size
of the target files in the set of meta-data verified before
downloading them, allows the target files downloader and verifier to
avoid downloading more data than expected (thanks to [[!cpan
LWP::UserAgent]]'s `max_size` method).

The upgrade-description files downloader and verifier could refuse to
download upgrade-description files bigger than some reasonable
constant, but this is not implemented yet.

This attack, when performed against the upgrade-description files
downloader and verifier is slightly mitigated in the same way as
"Indefinite freeze attacks" are.

### Slow retrieval attacks

> An attacker responds to clients with a very slow stream of data that
> essentially results in the client never continuing the
> upgrade process.

The old Tails upgrade system offers no protection at all against this
class of attacks, so the new one cannot do worse. However, one change
brought by the new Tails upgrade system is that we control the
programs used to download upgrade-description files and target files;
hence, we could set timeouts on download operations so that, at least,
the user can be made aware of what is happening. Currently, the
default timeout settings (if any) of these programs, libraries, and
underlying kernel networking code are used.

### Extraneous dependencies attacks

> An attacker indicates to clients that in order to install the
> software they wanted, they also need to install unrelated software.
> This unrelated software can be from a trusted source but may have
> known vulnerabilities that are exploitable by the attacker.

In the old Tails upgrade system, changing the list of needed files
could be done by taking control of the Tails website or breaking the
client/server SSL/TLS connection; in the new Tails upgrade system,
mounting this attack requires being able to sign a modified
upgrade-description file with the Tails OpenPGP signing key instead,
which is most probably harder.

### Mix-and-match attacks

> An attacker presents clients with a view of a repository that
> includes files that never existed together on the repository at the
> same time. This can result in, for example, outdated versions of
> dependencies being installed.

The list of needed target files to perform an upgrade, along with their
hashes, is available in a single location, that is in an
upgrade-description file; therefore, we believe the upgrade system
described on this page to be immune to mix-and-match attacks.

### Wrong software installation

> An attacker provides a client with a trusted file that is not the
> one the client wanted.

The old Tails upgrade system does not protect against this attack:
a mirror can replace an ISO file and its detached OpenPGP signature
with an obsolete pair of files, renamed to match the expected file
names of the new release. Given some released versions of Tails
shipped with a dysfunctional "security warning if upgrade is
available" system, many users would probably not notice.

The new Tails upgrade system is as secure, wrt. wrong software
installation attacks, as the trust-path to upgrade-description files
are. Breaking this is clearly harder than renaming a pair of files on
a mirror controlled by an attacker, so the new Tails upgrade system is
more secure than the old one against wrong software installation.

### Malicious mirrors preventing upgrades

> An attacker in control of one repository mirror is able to prevent
> users from obtaining upgrades from other, good mirrors.

In both the old and new Tails upgrade systems, mirrors are used for
target files only, as part of a DNS round-robin pool that contains
more than 6 members, so when retrying a failed download at a later
time, one is likely to land onto another mirror. We then believe both
the old and new Tails upgrade system to be relatively safe from this
class of attacks, as long as failed downloads are tried again later.

### Vulnerability to key compromises

> An attacker who is able to compromise a single key or less than
> a given threshold of keys can compromise clients. This includes
> relying on a single online key (such as only being protected by SSL)
> or a single offline key (such as most software upgrade systems use to
> sign files).

Both the old and new Tails upgrade systems are vulnerable to this class
of attacks, due to the reliance on the Tails OpenPGP signing key.
The future move to a secure upgrade system such as TUF or Thandy will
fix this.

## Privilege separation

The default Live user (`amnesia`) is allowed to run the upgrade
frontend, without arguments, as the dedicated `tails-upgrade-frontend`
user, who itself:

* is allowed to run the `tails-shutdown-network` and `/sbin/reboot`
  programs, using passwordless sudo, as any user;
* is allowed to run the `tails-install-iuk` program, with any
  arguments, using passwordless sudo, as the `tails-install-iuk` user;
* is allowed to run the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` program, with any
  argument, using passwordless sudo, as the
  `tails-iuk-get-target-file` user;
* is allowed to run `tails-iuk-mktemp-get-target-file`, using
  passwordless sudo, as the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` user;
* is allowed to run `tor-has-bootstrapped`, using passwordless sudo,
  as the `debian-tor` user.

The `tails-install-iuk` user is allowed to run, using passwordless
sudo, every command required by its task (currently: `chmod`, `cp`,
`dd`, `mkdir`, `mktemp`, `mount`, `rm`, `tar` and
`/lib/live/mount/medium/utils/linux/syslinux`) with any arguments.
It is a member of the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` group, which allows it to
read the files downloaded by the `tails-iuk-get-target-file` program.

## Running syslinux after applying an IUK

Anyone who can feed `tails-install-iuk` with an arbitrary IUK can run
arbitrary code as root, by storing the attack code in one of the
tarballs contained in the IUK, as `utils/linux/syslinux`. This does
not introduce new security risks: the very same adversary could plant
a persistent rootkit anyway. Our protection against this instead
relies in the privilege separation described above: all that the
`amnesia` user can do is run the frontend with no arguments.

# Research

## Secure upgrade

* [TUF: The Update Framework](https://www.updateframework.com/)
* [Thandy specification](https://gitweb.torproject.org/thandy.git/blob_plain/HEAD:/specs/thandy-spec.txt)

## Discarded options and historical information

See the [[page about discarded options and historical
information|contribute/design/incremental_upgrades/archive]].
