[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB Stick"]]

Tails is easily installed to a USB storage device
by cloning an existing Tails system that is running from DVD or USB.
Tails Installer also supports upgrades from an ISO image or from
the currently running Tails system.

The choice between possible destination
devices or partitions is proposed amongst the
available removable storage devices.

Upgrades
========

Tails Installer can perform a full upgrade of an already installed
USB stick. During this process, nothing is modified on the target
drive but the Tails system partition and the [[!wikipedia Master boot record]].

At the end of the upgrade process, we upgrade syslinux with the binary
found in `utils/linux/syslinux` on the Tails system partition.
Likewise, upgrade the boot device's MBR with the one found in
`utils/mbr/mbr.bin` on the Tails system partition. This ensures that
the installed version of syslinux matches the version of the COM32
modules that are shipped by the version of Tails the target drive was
just upgraded to.

Security discussion: with this mechanism in place, anyone who can feed
an arbitrary ISO into Tails Installer can run arbitrary code (stored
in the ISO filesystem as `utils/linux/syslinux`) as the user running
Tails Installer. We have no mechanism to run Tails Installer with
elevated privileges currently, so this should not be a problem: being
able to run `liveusb-creator` with arbitrary arguments is equivalent
to being able to run arbitrary code already.

Mode of operation and booting methods
=====================================

In order to be able to have non-destructive upgrades, blind overwrites
(using `dd` or similar raw copy methods) of the boot media is not possible 
(even when Tails [[ships hybrid ISO
images|contribute/design/hybrid_ISO]]).

Two alternatives booting methods have been investigated:

1. **Boot ISO file**: Set up a bootloader on the USB stick that is able
   to boot an ISO image dropped into the right directory of it. Even
   early boot files (kernel, initramfs) are loaded from *inside* the
   ISO file.

2. **Copy ISO's content**: Copy needed files (mainly the kernel,
   initramfs and SquashFS image that live in the `live/` directory)
   from the ISO filesystem to the destination partition, then set up a
   bootloader that uses files in that directory. The end result is
   more or less equivalent to dd'ing the ISO image to the USB stick,
   but achieved with a non-destructive process.

We have settled on the *copy ISO's content* way, mostly because it is overall
simpler, more robust, and allows
implementing [[contribute/design/incremental_upgrades]] relatively easily.

Partitioning
============

The storage device is partitioned using [GPT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUID_Partition_Table). Using GPT has several desirable properties:

 * The system partition is hidden from Windows using the `hidden` flag of GPT. Hopefully this
   should prevent some misuse of Tails system partition, even if we
   explicitly discourage users to plug their Tails USB stick to a
   running system (Windows among other OS).
 * `sgdisk` can run on Windows whereas no other free partitioning tools
   are available under Windows for other partioning method.
 * Partitions can be labeled. The [[design/persistence]] setup tools can
   easily detect the right partitions without blind tries.

The system partition (holding Tails) has a size of 2.5 GB, with the
following estimates:

 * Tails ISO: 1GB
 * 3 [[incremental upgrade kits|contribute/design/incremental upgrade]], 200 MB each: 600MB
 * free space needed to install an incremental upgrade kit: 2 * 200 MB
   = 600 MB

The Tails system partition uses a FAT32 filesystem, mainly because it is the
one supported by SYSLINUX we may easily create, in a programmatic manner, from
Windows systems. This choice has consequences that are barely related to the
USB installation task: the restrictions on filenames imposed by the FAT32
filesystem limits what can be shipped on the system parition
(e.g. Tails documentation is only available inside Tails).

The rest of the device is left unpartitionned for an encrypted storage
partition that can be used for the [[design/persistence]] feature.

Branding of liveusb-creator
===========================

The original liveusb-creator is Fedora-specific. We have made configurable
most of the branding we needed to change.

 * Allow disabling the download feature.
 * Allow defaults/vendor/site configuration of the
   window title, download widget title, and custom artwork.

Currently supported config options (in the "branding" section) are:

 * `distribution`: name used in window title and download widget title,
 * `header`: pixmap displayed on top of the main dialog.

These options can be set in `/etc/liveusb-creator/{vendor,site}.ini`.

Both Qt resources and regular paths are supported for the `header`
option:

    # Qt resource
    [branding]
    distribution = Tails
    header = :/tails-liveusb-header.png
    partition_label = Tails

    # Regular path
    [branding]
    distribution = Tails
    header = /path/to/tails-liveusb-header.png

Launchers
=========

We need to pass the `-u` and `-n` switches in any case; specific modes
of operation need other switches:

 * Initial installation needs `-P` and `-m`, upgrade does not.
 * Cloning needs `--clone`, installing from ISO does not.

We have `.desktop` files for the following usecases:

 * Clone the currently running Tails onto a shiny new USB stick:
   `--clone -P -m`
 * Upgrade a (non-running) Tails system using a ISO file: no
   additional switch required.
 * Upgrade a (non-running) Tails system using another, fresher,
   running Tails: no additional switch required.

Why a fork of liveusb-creator?
==============================

After an initial [[roundup of existing tools|blueprint/usb_install_and_upgrade/archive]],
we decided to use Fedora's `liveusb-creator` as a basis, for reasons that are now
obsolete due to more recent design choices. While we did most of our initial
adaptation work on liveusb-creator with future upstreaming of our changes in
mind, it proved to be hard, and future extension seems now out of question.
Our [[future plans|blueprint/usb_install_and_upgrade]] include moving to another
piece of software as a basis, and hopefully working more closely with this
future upstream of ours.

Source code
===========

The Tails Installer source code lives in a Git repository:

	<https://git-tails.immerda.ch/liveusb-creator/>
