[[!meta title="Installation assistant"]]

In 2015, we worked on a complete rewrite on our installation
instructions. This work was extended in 2017 with the design of a new
download page. The archive of our design process as well as pending
issues can be found in the [[corresponding
blueprint|blueprint/bootstrapping/assistant]].

Our previous instructions forced people to jump through many different
documentation pages and often to figure out by themselves what to do next. See
this [[flowchart of the installation process as of
2014|blueprint/bootstrapping/2014.fodg]].

The objective was to make this a linear process, to be follow step-by-step, and
that would take the user from our homepage up to starting on a Tails USB stick
with a persistent volume. But this process has to be adapted to the base
operating system of the user or their technical expertise.

We decided to optimize it for first time and less technical users, while still
being usable by expert users.

The following scenarios are proposed:

  - [[Clone from another Tails (for PC)|install/win/clone-overview]]
  - [[Clone from another Tails (for Mac)|install/mac/clone-overview]]
  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb-overview]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb-overview]]
  - [[Install from Linux (all distributions)|install/linux/usb-overview]]
  - [[Install from Debian, Ubuntu, or Mint using the command line and GnuPG|install/expert/usb-overview]]
  - [[Burn a DVD|install/dvd]]
  - [[Download only for USB sticks|install/download]]
  - [[Download only for DVDs and virtual machines|install/download-iso]]

The installation assistant is also adapted to cover 5 [[manual upgrade
scenarios|doc/upgrade#manual]]:

  - [[Upgrade by cloning from another Tails|upgrade/clone-overview]]
  - [[Upgrade from Tails|upgrade/tails-overview]]
  - [[Upgrade from Windows|upgrade/win-overview]]
  - [[Upgrade from macOS|upgrade/mac-overview]]
  - [[Upgrade from Linux|upgrade/linux-overview]]

The assistant is divided into four sections:

  - The [[*router*|installation_assistant#router]] which selects the scenario to follow.
  - The [[*overview*|installation_assistant#overview]] which summarizes graphically the scenario.
  - The [[*download*|installation_assistant#download]] page for downloading and verifying the ISO image.
  - The [[*steps*|installation_assistant#steps]] which gives step-by-step instructions for the scenario after downloading.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Related documents
=================

- [[Design document of *Tails Installer*|verification_extension]]
- [[Design document of *Tails Verification*|verification_extension]]
- [[Blueprint with archives of the past design processes and notes on future work|blueprint/bootstrapping/assistant]]

Implementation tricks
=====================

The installation assistant is basically presenting very similar content in many
different scenarios with small variations (slightly different steps, slightly
different terminology, etc.).

To reuse as much content as possible and reduce the quantity of text and
translations, our implementation relies heavily on two tricks. Both are
quite hackish but were the only solution we found to avoid duplicating
massive amount of content in ikiwiki.

### Ikiwiki inlines

The [inline directive](https://ikiwiki.info/ikiwiki/directive/inline/) of
ikiwiki allows embedding a file into another file to avoid duplicating content.
It is quite limited and brittle, especially when used together with the PO
plugin. See [[!tails_ticket 6907]].

### Conditional CSS content

To adapt a piece of content reused using ikiwiki inlines to the context
where it appears we are using CSS classes. For example, to introduce the
program used to install an intermediary Tails on Windows and Linux we
wrote:

<pre>
&lt;span class="windows"&gt;a program called Etcher.&lt;/span&gt;
&lt;span class="linux"&gt;a program called GNOME Disks.&lt;/span&gt;
</pre>

Elements with the `windows` class being only displayed in the Windows
scenario and elements with the
`linux` class being only displayed in the Linux scenario.

- Classes for elements displayed only on one scenario:
  - `windows` for [[/install/win/usb|/install/win/usb]]
  - `mac` for [[/install/mac/usb|/install/mac/usb]]
  - `linux` for [[/install/linux/usb|/install/linux/usb]]
  - `expert` for [[/install/expert/usb|/install/expert/usb]]
  - `dvd` for [[/install/dvd-download|/install/dvd-download]]
  - `vm` for [[/install/vm-download|/install/vm-download]]
  - `download-only-img` for [[/install/download|/install/download]]
  - `download-only-iso` for [[/install/download|/install/download-iso]]
  - `install-clone` for [[/install/clone|/install/clone]]
  - `mac-clone` for [[/install/mac/clone|/install/mac/clone]]
  - `upgrade-clone` for [[/upgrade/clone|/upgrade/clone]]
  - `upgrade-tails` for [[/upgrade/tails|/upgrade/tails]]
  - `upgrade-windows` for [[/upgrade/win|/upgrade/win]]
  - `upgrade-mac` for [[/upgrade/mac|/upgrade/mac]]
  - `upgrade-linux` for [[/upgrade/linux|/upgrade/linux]]

- Classes for elements potentially displayed on different pages:
  - `clone` for content involving cloning:
     - `install-clone`, `upgrade-clone`, `mac-clone`
  - `usb` for content with a USB stick as destination device (only for installation):
     - `windows`, `mac`, `linux`, `expert`
  - `upgrade` for content for manual upgrade:
     - `upgrade-clone`, `upgrade-tails`, `upgrade-os`
  - `upgrade-os` for content for manual upgrade from another OS
     - `upgrade-windows`, `upgrade-mac`, `upgrade-linux`

<a id="#router"></a>

Router
======

The *router* is a sequence of multiple choices that determines which
installation scenario to follow. It is divided by operating systems:

  - Windows
  - macOS
  - Linux

Notes:

- Cloning is proposed as an alternative for all operating systems as it is
  easier and faster.

- *Download only* is proposed as a minor option on the first page of the
  router. This is an example of us optimizing for first time users: installing
  Tails is very complex and we really want them to follow the full installation
  instructions and not only download and try to figure out the rest by
  themselves. This is especially true for those who think they are power users
  which is a good share of our audience.

  *Download only* is not offered as an option from the
  sidebar of the website for the same reason and to keep the sidebar as
  simple as possible.

- Burning a DVD is also proposed as a minor option because:
  - DVD are not very popular (13% of the WhisperBack reports received in
    2015).
  - DVD do not benefit from automatic upgrades, so people might be more
    quickly out-of-date.
  - DVD does not allow creating a persistent volume, so people cannot
    rely on long lasting cryptographic keys to secure their
    communication and might use weaker techniques.
  - For these same reasons we only provide a download and links to Ubuntu
    instructions in the scenario.

- Running in a virtual machine is proposed as a minor option because:
  - VMs are not very popular (5% of the WhisperBack reports received in
    2015).
  - VMs are less secure because the host operating system can monitor
    them.
  - VMs make it harder to create a persistent volume, so people might
    not rely on long lasting cryptographic keys to secure their
    communication and might use weaker techniques.
  - For these same reasons we only provide a download and then point to the
    documentation on virtualization.

<a id="overview"></a>

Overview
========

The *overview* is a single page summarizing graphically:

  - The requirements of the installation scenario in terms of hardware
    and time. This is important so that people get ready and make sure
    beforehand that they have everything needed to complete the
    scenario.
  - The different steps. This give a rough idea of what will happen
    next and how complex it is. This is particularly important as the
    *steps* are a single and very long page.

For example, the content of the overview for installing from Windows is
stored in [[!tails_gitweb wiki/src/install/win/usb-overview.html]] which includes a common block of
HTML stored in [[!tails_gitweb wiki/src/install/inc/overview.html]] and uses the `windows` CSS
class to adapt to the scenario.

<a id="download"></a>

Download
========

The download of the ISO image comes as a dedicated page between the
overview and steps (except for `install-clone`, `mac-clone`, `upgrade-clone`, and `expert`). It
is also available as a [[standalone page|install/download]].

The download is split as a dedicated page (while still labeled as "Step
1") to make it harder for people to skip the verification. It is still
possible to skip the download or even the verification but the link to
do so is labeled as a warning.

Depending on the installation scenario, the download page points to the
download of the ISO image (on `dvd` and `vm`) or the USB image (on all
other scenarios).

We propose two download techniques displayed in equal weight and combined
with two verification techniques that have a level of verification at least as
good as HTTPS:

a. Direct download combined with a browser extension, called *Tails Verification*. See the [[dedicated design
   document|verification_extension]] for a security analysis of this technique.

b. BitTorrent download. The Torrent file is downloaded through HTTPS
   from our website and BitTorrent clients automatically verifies the download once
   completed.

We advertise OpenPGP verification as an optional verification technique,
possibly done on top of the other two techniques and ideally through the
OpenPGP Web-of-Trust. We assume that this technique is only relevant for
people who are already knowledgeable about OpenPGP. As a consequence:

- We only provide simplified instructions on how to perform the
  verification, insisting on aspects that might still be relevant for
  this public: verification of the date, command line options, warning
  when the signing key is not trusted, etc.
- We take more time to develop the verification of the signing key
  through the OpenPGP Web of Trust because it is the only technique that is
  really stronger than HTTPS.

<a id="steps"></a>

Steps
=====

The *steps* for a given scenario is a very long page with step-by-step
instructions of the whole process.

- It is a single page so that people can get a feeling of what is left
  to be done. During the tests, many people were scrolling up and down
  the page, for example while waiting for an operation to complete or
  when feeling that they missed something earlier.

- The content of each step is written in an inline stored in
  `install/inc/steps/*.inline.mdwn` which is inlined from the scenarios
  themselves (for example `install/debian/usb.mdwn`) and adapted to each
  scenario using CSS classes.
