[[!meta title="MAC address anonymization"]]

[[!toc levels=3]]

# Rationale

The uniqueness of [[!wikipedia MAC addresses]] introduce two types of
potential issues for Tails users, in particular if the MAC address can
be linked to the user's identity:

1. Geographical location tracking: A time-stamped log of a MAC address
   ties a device to a certain location at a particular time. If the
   device's owner is known, his or her movements are also known. In
   case an unknown owner, the tracked movements leak information about
   the owner, which eventually may lead to identification.

2. Identify Tails (or Tor) users: If the usage of Tails (or Tor) can
   be fingerprinted on the network (despite other measures taken), and
   the owner of a device is known, it can be determined that the owner
   also is a Tails (or Tor) user.

Spoofing the MAC address is the natural solution. Unfortunately, in
some cases MAC spoofing may cause network connection issues or even
raise alarms; care should be taken to prevent MAC spoofing in such
situations.

# Restrictions

While some of the following concerns are related to MAC spoofing (or
very similar in spirit) they are not covered in this feature.

## IMEI

[[!wikipedia IMEI]] numbers is another unique modifier affecting mobile
network devices (e.g. 3G, but *not* Wi-Fi) that is very similar to MAC
addresses and can be used by adversaries in similar ways. Given this
similarity we'd like to deal with IMEI spoofing (or similar) in this
feature but the lack of proper tools prevent us from doing it
properly.

## Pre-OS network activity

It should be noted that we cannot do anything against network activity
caused at BIOS time, such as [[!wikipedia Intel AMT]], beyond urging
users to disable such features (if possible, like it is for Intel AMT).

## Profiling based on chipset/driver particularities

It's possible to profile the particular chipset and/or driver used by
a device based on the active probing algorithm used, and its
parameters (e.g. channel probe order, how many probes sent per
channel, time spend per channel). See for instance the paper
[A Characterization of Wireless NIC Active Scanning Algorithms](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=4224690&tag=1).

Dealing with this may be impossible, or at least require re-writing
all Linux wireless drivers so that the parameters can be changed so we
cannot practically deal with this issue at this point.

# Threat model

## Adversary capabilities

The adversary's capabilities are assumed to be:

1. Omniscient wireless snooping of when and where (via triangulation)
   all MAC addresses are used. Also access to Time-stamped logs of the
   presence of MAC addresses on all wired networks (think compromised
   routers and/or ISP:s). [AdvCapSniff]

2. Has access, on specific request, to all user/customer records and
   surveillance data of any public network. [AdvCapRecords]

3. Knows who owns which MAC address according to the last traceable
   transaction (e.g. credit card trail). Cash purchase, trade, trash
   salvaging or theft are ways to potentially avoid this but the
   adversary can interrogate the previous owner to obtain that
   information if remembered (or at all known). [AdvCapOwners]

## Adversary goals

We assume an adversary whose goals are the following, which all
happens on a global, omniscient level thanks to AdvCapSniff:

1. Monitoring of when and where a particular MAC address with a known
   owner is used. In other words, monitoring of an individual's
   geographical movement while using a certain device (thanks to
   AdvCapOwners).  [AdvGoalTracking]

2. Dragnet-style logging of when and where MAC addresses with unknown
   owners are used for large-scale social graphing and profiling which
   leaks information owners' identities. [AdvGoalProfiling]

3. Identify Tails (and Tor) users. If Tails (or Tor) usageAdv can be
   fingerprinted, then that fact is documented about a particular
   individual (thanks to AdvCapOwners). [AdvGoalIdTails]

4. Identify MAC spoofing individuals. We assume that our adversary has
   bought into the "nothing to hide" argument, which makes such
   suspicious behaviour valuable information. [AdvGoalIdMacSpoof]

## Tails user goals

1. Hide geographical movement, i.e. prevent AdvGoalTracking and
   AdvGoalProfiling. [AvoidTracking]

2. No unspoofed usage of Tails (or Tor), i.e. prevent AdvGoalIdTails.
   [AvoidIdTails]

3. Not raising alarms on the network, i.e. prevent AdvGoalIdMacSpoof,
   but also avoid alarming the local administrators (imagine a
   situation where security guards are sent to investigate an "alien
   computer" at your workplace, or similar). [AvoidIdMacSpoof]

4. Avoid network connection problems due to MAC address white-listing,
   fixed ARP tables, hardware or driver issues, or
   similar. [AvoidConnectionProbs]

# Use case analysis

Below we analyse how MAC address spoofing relates to each user goal
for the given situation.

## Using Tails at home

First, note that the user's relation (owner, family member's,
friend's, work's, borrowed, etc.) to the computer running Tails
doesn't matter; the location is already directly related to the user's
identity. Similarly, because of this, MAC spoofing is of very limited
value for both AvoidTracking and AvoidIdTails value.

MAC spoofing could hinder AvoidIdMacSpoof if detected by the ISP's
hardware (i.e. no trusted router in the way). Similarly, ISP-provided
hardware may employ some sort of MAC address white-listing (e.g. only
X unique ones are allowed) that can prevent AvoidConnectionProbs.

Summary: MAC spoofing should be avoided but isn't terribly dangerous
if enabled.

## Using Tails at a friend's place

### Using your computer

MAC spoofing should be enabled for both AvoidTracking and
AvoidIdTails. AvoidIdMacSpoof won't be your problem but your friend's
(which isn't a problem at all unless you're there spoofing all the
time). AvoidConnectionProbs can be problematic for the same reasons as
in "Using Tails at home".

Summary: Enable MAC spoofing!

### Using any other computer

Since the computer you use isn't tied to you, AvoidTracking and
AvoidIdTails aren't relevant. AvoidIdMacSpoof won't be your problem but
your friend's. AvoidConnectionProbs can be problematic for the same
reasons as in "Using Tails at home".

Summary: MAC spoofing should be avoided but isn't terribly dangerous
if enabled.

## Using Tails at a restricted public network

Access is restricted to registered users' identities only. We use
"registration" a bit loosely, but example of networks like these are:

* paid-for access when there's a money trail (e.g. credit cards).
* captive portals requiring logging in with an identity-tied account.
* locations requiring a identity-tied key card (e.g. university
  computer labs and workplaces) to access.

This should probably also cover otherwise unrestricted networks that
snoops on users in other ways, e.g. a library with video camera
surveillance.

### Using your computer

Since the user is registered for network access, both AvoidTracking
and AvoidIdTails are hard to get. However, AdvCapRecords requires
explicit targeting (more expensive), while AdvCapSniff isn't, and MAC
spoofing would defeat the latter, so it's not without merit.

AvoidIdMacSpoof could be problematic if your registered presence on the
network is correlated to constantly new MAC addresses. A quite likely
situation for this case is that you login via some captive portal, and
these often use your MAC address for access control purposes, so a log
of which you have used

AvoidConnectionProbs is a problem if your MAC address becomes part of
your registration, and is assumed to not change (maybe a place where
you have to pay for each device you connect with). This seems pretty
far-fetched, though.

Summary: There's no easy choice here but in most scenarios
AvoidTracking is probably more valuable than AvoidIdMacSpoof, so MAC
spoofing should be enabled.

### Using a public computer

Since the computer isn't tied to you, MAC spoofing does nothing to
AvoidTracking and AvoidIdTails. It could cause problems to both
AvoidIdMacSpoof and AvoidConnectionProbs.

Summary: MAC spoofing should be avoided but isn't terribly dangerous
if enabled.

## Using Tails at an open public network

Access is completely open, and no kind of registration is needed.

### Using your computer

MAC spoofing should be enabled for both AvoidTracking and
AvoidIdTails. Such a network should expect to see many unique MAC
addresses daily, and be ready to deal with it, so AvoidIdMacSpoof and
AvoidConnectionProbs are of no consequence.

Summary: Enable MAC spoofing!

### Using a public computer

Same as using a public computer at a restricted public network.

Summary: MAC spoofing should be avoided but isn't terribly dangerous
if enabled.

## Conclusions

The strong requirement of enabling MAC spoofing in a few cases, and
the low risk of keeping it enabled even in the cases where it should
be avoided, warrants for making this feature enabled by default, with
the possibility to opt-out.

# Leak prevention

It is conceivable that NICs may send packets before the user has made
a decision about whether to use MAC spoofing or not. In fact, someone
on tails-dev@
[alluded](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2013-January/002491.html)
to this being possible for wireless NICs although without any
references (this may refer to so called "active probing"; see section
below). If this is the case it at the very least implies that we must
enforce the MAC spoofing setting as early as possible.

However, since we (obviously) cannot foresee the user's decision we get
a problematic time frame between when a network device is added during
early boot and when the user makes the decision later on. Enforcing a
default MAC spoofing setting immediately when a network device is
added, that then potentially is reversed when the user makes the
decision, leads to problems in some scenarios if we assume these early
leaks happen:

* If MAC spoofing is enabled before the user has made the decision, a
  fake MAC address would leak before the user made the decision, and
  the decision was to disable MAC spoofing. The sudden switch of MAC
  address may result in a breach of AvoidIdMacSpoof.

* If MAC spoofing is disabled before the user has made the decision, the
  real MAC address would leak even if the user wanted MAC spoofing
  enabled, which leaks to breaches of AvoidTracking and AvoidIdTails.
  The sudden switch of MAC address may result in a breach of
  AvoidIdMacSpoof.

The real solution is therefore to eliminate the problematic this time
frame completely by preventing any network devices from being enabled
at all until the decision has been made, and have the MAC spoofing
setting applied immediately when the device is added.

<a id="active-probe-fingerprinting"></a>

# Active probe fingerprinting

**No protection against this is implemented yet**

There's an opportunity for an adversary to achieve AdvGoalTracking and
AdvGoalProfiling due to "active probing" performed by NetworkManager
for Wi-Fi connections. This puts AvoidTracking at risk.

Wi-Fi has both a passive and active scanning mode. Passive scanning,
as the name suggests, passively listens for broadcasted wireless
networks, which is entirely safe. Active scanning, however, actively
sends probes for any known networks. In our case these are the saved
connections in NetworkManager, so this turns especially problematic
when persistent NM connections are used; the (potentially long) list of
networks actively probed for can be used as a fingerprint by an
adversary, breaching AvoidTracking.

While this has nothing to do with MAC spoofing, it does strongly
affect the (arguably) most important user goal of this feature, namely
AvoidTracking. Because of this, active scanning should be disabled in
NetworkManager when MAC spoofing is enabled: [[!tails_ticket 6453]].

# How to spoof the MAC address

## Spoofing the OUI part of the MAC address

**This is currently not implemented. See the
[[Limitation: Only spoof the NIC part of the MAC address|MAC_address#limitation-only-spoof-nic-part]]
section below.**

The first six bytes of a MAC address determine the Organizationally Unique Identifier
(OUI) which in practice determines the chipset's manufacturer, who
generally owns several OUIs. Spoofing the OUI part in a way that
satisfies our threat model is not straightforward because of
`AvoidIdMacSpoof` since multiple, large categories of OUIs violate
that user goal:

* Unregistered OUI so it's not used for any real device.

* Registered OUI that was never used for any device.

* Registered OUI that is used for special purpose devices unlikely to
  be used on most networks, e.g. NICs only used in ATMs, vending
  machines or embedded devices.

* Registered OUI used for NICs in normal computers but for a different
  type of NIC than the device being spoofed. This is only relevant
  when this difference actually can be detected by the adversary, like
  with wired vs. wireless.

* Registered OUI used for NICs in normal computers but they were
  manufactured decades ago.

* Registered OUI used for NICs in normal computers but whose
  distribution is limited to some restricted, geographical area.

* Registered OUI used for NICs in normal computers but that simply is
  very rare.

Great care should be taken when picking the OUI to avoid these
categories. The whole point is to randomly pick an OUI that the
adversary expects to see. In particular the OUI should be one used for
common, consumer oriented hardware.

## Spoofing the NIC part of the MAC address

The last six bytes of the MAC address are meant to distinguish
individual devices among those with the same OUI. These should simply
be selected at random, with the exception that we never allow it to
stay the same, even if done in a fair, random way. Theoretically
speaking this leaks up to `24/2^24` bits of the NIC part of the real
MAC address per Tails session but in practice the complete NIC part is
leaked to adversaries that do not anticipate MAC spoofing, which is
much worse.

# Implementation

The current implementation leaves the OUI part unchanged, and only spoofs the
last six bytes of any network device's MAC address immediately after
it is added by udev. Furthermore, to deal with potential network leaks
before the user has chosen whether to enable MAC spoofing or not, the
addition of network devices is delayed until after Tails Greeter knows
the user's final decision.

## Network blocking

As suggested in the "Leak prevention" section, we block all network
devices' modules from being loaded until the user has made the decision about
whether to enable MAC spoofing or not. The way we do this is by
generating a list of all network device modules during build time, and
add these to a `modprobe.d`-type blacklist. An implication of this is
that in-kernel drivers and modules installed after build time will not
be in the blacklist and hence are not supported. In Tails Greeter's
post-login script (when we know the user's decision) we unblock the
network by simply removing that list, and then we have udev "re-probe"
for network devices and load their modules.

Scripts:

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-hooks/80-block-network]] (runs at
  build time)

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-unblock-network]]

* [[!greeter_gitweb PostLogin.default]] (where `tails-unblock-network`
  is started)

### Potential for blocking the desktop

The call of `udevadm settle` may block for up to 120 seconds (the default
timeout) during Tails Greeter's PostLogin in case of some broken
hardware and/or crappy udev rules. In other words, the Tails desktop
may be blocked for this long, without any notification.

If this turns out to be a problem (currently it's only guesswork) we
could make two `udevadm settle`:s, one with a short timeout (10 seconds)
and if it fails we show a notification and optimistically start
another `udevadm settle` *in* *a* *sub-shell* so it doesn't block the
Tails desktop from starting any more.

For more, see this sub-thread on tails-dev:
<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2013-November/004299.html>

## Trigger

We use udev as the trigger that hooks MAC address spoofing. Because of
that, it happens for every Ethernet device automatically, as early as
possible (i.e. immediately after it's added), so even if there's some
kind of weird leak before a device is up:ed the real MAC address
shouldn't leak.

Hook:
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/udev/rules.d/00-mac-spoof.rules]]

### Discarded approaches

All other triggers that were considered do not deal with the "early"
leaks issue, in addition to other reasons for being discarded:

* ifupdown hook: A if-pre-up hook would probably work but since we use
  NetworManager the exact behaviour is blurred and not particularly
  well-documented. It doesn't feel robust for this reason.

* NetworkManager hook: NM doesn't trigger events equivalent to
  if-pre-up, so this isn't possible. See the commented parts in:
  `/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/01ifupdown`. Note that
  NetworkManager 0.9.10 introduces pre-up hooks, *but* they're used to
  "allow scripts to execute before NetworkManager announces
  connectivity to applications" (according to a [blog
  post](http://blogs.gnome.org/dcbw/2014/06/20/well-build-a-dream-house-of-net/)
  by Dan William), that is, after network activity (e.g.
  DHCP requests) has already occurred.

* systemd integration: We don't use this yet.

* NetworkManager plugin: While this certainly would have a nice impact
  outside of Tails, the added maintenance burden makes it less
  attractive.

## MAC changing tool

The tool used to change the MAC address is simply macchanger, mostly
because it's in Debian (where the known vulnerabilities are patched)
and [macchiato](https://github.com/EtiennePerot/macchiato) isn't (and
it's not as well tested, yet). macchanger is
used in a very straightforward way, so if we want to switch tool in
the future it's a simple task.

Helper scripts:
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-spoof-mac]]

<a id="limitation-only-spoof-nic-part"></a>

### Limitation: Only spoof the NIC part of the MAC address

To put the categories listed in the "Spoofing the OUI part of the MAC
address" section into context, let's look at `macchanger`'s
options. Among the ones that some how modifies the OUI part of the MAC
address (`-r`, `-a` and `-A`) all have a significant probability of
picking an OUI from the problematic categories that violate the
`AvoidIdMacSpoof` user goal.

Another MAC spoofing tool,
[`macchiato`](https://github.com/EtiennePerot/macchiato), takes this
to the next level by maintaining lists of "common enough" OUIs for
different categories of devices so a less suspicious choice of OUI can
be made. However, the verification of the OUI being "common enough"
lands on the submitter, so an ignorant (not necessarily malicious)
submitter can easily get an uncommon OUI into the lists. See e.g. the
"Contribute" section of its homepage, or the author's request on
[reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/privacy/comments/1avca3/got_any_internetconnected_devices_yes_you_do_help/).

Another issue is that `macchiato`'s lists do not take into account
that some devices are pretty much only used in some geographical
areas. Note that collecting such data probably is orders of magnitude
harder than `macchiato`'s current quest, and that the user interface
would be further complicated (in Tails we'd have to ask for the
current geographical location in Tails Greeter, or similar). The real
impact of this should be evaluated; it's very likely that the benefits
still outweigh this risk.

To end with, `macchiato`'s lists are very small with only ~20 OUIs in
most of the relevant categories as of the current Git state (commit
90fa147d), 2014-04-25. The exact impact of this is not
well-understood. This is probably the main blocker for Tails to switch
to `macchiato` and dare saying we satisfy the "Spoofing the OUI part
of the MAC address" requirement from above.

What remains is to only spoof the latter six bytes, the NIC part. We
know it isn't a perfect strategy. The more uncommon the OUI of a
user's device is, the more it can be used for tracking the user, i.e.
the more it violates the `AvoidTracking` user goal. At least this
comes with some uncertainty compared to many of the impossible choices
of OUI listed above, which would guarantee widespread violation of
`AvoidIdMacSpoof` among Tails users, so this seems like a reasonable
tradeoff at the moment.

## MAC spoofing fail safe

For any network device, the MAC address is recorded both before and
after the actual MAC spoofing. If the values are equal, or if they
could not be obtained, we fail closed by going into "panic mode" for
the device. This means that the device is `down`:ed, and its module is
unloaded and blacklisted. If the network device's interface still
exists after this, networking is completely disabled by shutting down
NetworkManager. The user is notified of which device was the culprit,
and whether the module was unloaded, or if the network was completely
disabled.

Note that we treat the perfectly fine `macchanger` behaviour of
randomly picking the real MAC address as a failure. Since we randomise
the lower 3 bytes of the MAC address there's a `1/2^24` chance for
this happening for each device. To make it a bit less frequent (!) we
repeat the MAC spoofing until a new address is obtained, with up to
three tries.

Script:
[[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-spoof-mac]]

## Connection failure detection

This section deals with AvoidConnectionProbs. The goal is to somehow
identify connection errors that are related to MAC spoofing, and
notify the user when this happens.

Due to lack of hooks into NetworkManager's connection error handling
we currently use a simple monitoring script that's started when MAC
spoofing is enabled. It scans syslog for the error message patterns
from NetworkManager and `wpa_supplicant` expected when the connection
fails due to MAC spoofing. When such a pattern is found, a
notification is shown to the user, stating that the connection problem
*may* be MAC spoofing related. Due to the uncertainty and lack of
information available for this approach, there certainly will be false
positives.

At the moment this script only deals with wireless connections. It
successfully distinguishes between MAC-spoof related errors and errors
when entering the wrong passphrase, so no false positives in that
(relatively common) case.

Scripts:

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-restricted-network-detector]]

* [[!greeter_gitweb PostLogin.default]]
  (`tails-restricted-network-detector` started from this script)
