Data persistence is a somewhat tricky topic in a Live system context,
especially one explicitly designed to avoid leaving any trace of
its use.

Some real-life usecases however require to set up some kind of data
persistence, which were then carefully introduced and supported.

[[!toc levels=4]]

Usecases
========

What can be made persistent?
----------------------------

Here are the usecases that are of interest for our users and we want
to support.

### Application-specific configurations

This is relevant for the following applications:

- GnuPG, SSH and OTR key pairs
- GnuPG configuration
- SSH client configuration
- Tor Browser certificate trust
- Tor Browser bookmarks
- Pidgin configuration
- MUA configuration
- printers configuration
- Tor's data/cache for faster bootstrap with slow connections and
  better protections through more stable entry guards
  (`/var/lib/tor/`); beware, this breaks tordate
  [[contribute/design/Time_syncing]]
- NoScript global behaviour (whitelist / blacklist) and exceptions

A tool (`tails-persistence-setup`) helps the user to choose exactly
what files/directories should be persistent. With such a general
solution the above things don't have to be implemented individually,
and are instead present as default suggestions in the tool, and
advanced users with uncommon requirements can do whatever they want so
we don't hear them nagging all the time.

Stuff we don't want to actively support making persistent:

- web browser addons (while we don't want to make it impossible to
  install addons, we think it's a really bad idea, and won't actively
  support it, since it partitions the Tails users anonymity set, thus
  having bad consequences both on people who do it *and* on others)

### User data store

A persistent non-home data store for whatever random files the user
wants to have persistent. This is the `~/Persistent/` directory.

### Additional software packages

If a user needs software that is not included in Tails by default it can be
quite annoying to fetch the APT information and download it (slow over
Tor) every time. Therefore, APT packages lists and cache can easily be
made persistent. It's also possible to store in persistence a list of
additional software packages to be automatically reinstalled on boot.

Persistence storage location
----------------------------

The Tails persistent volume is a LUKS-encrypted GPT partition, labeled
`TailsData`, stored on a removable storage device.

Specifications
==============

Once a persistent volume is enabled, changes to persistent files are saved.

Moreover:

* Read-write access to a persistent data store is not the default: it
  requires a voluntary user action such as choosing enabling
  a *persistence* option in the boot menu.
* The persistent data is stored using strong, well-known, Free
  Software, peer-reviewed encryption tools (`dm-crypt` and LUKS)
* Fixed storage devices are be blacklisted by default from the search
  for persistent volumes. Rationale: preventing the risk of using
  a malicious persistent volume seems more important than supporting
  the rare "I want to store my persistent volume on a fixed hard-disk"
  use-case.

Current state of things
=======================

Tails 0.11 and greater supports the **persistent application-specific
configurations** and **persistent user data store** usecases.

Implementation
==============

Backend
-------

Debian Live already supports several kinds of persistence, including
snapshots of selected files and persistence store automounting, both
at the `$HOME` and system-wide levels. LUKS persistent volumes
are supported.

Neither home automounting nor `live-snapshot` currently fit the
application-specific configuration persistence use case. Both because
they are not finely grained enough and persist too much.

That's why we have decided to:

* [generalize overlays](http://live.debian.net/devel/rfc/persistence/)
  (`*-rw`) to handle arbitrary directories, not just `/` and `/home`,
* add a "linkfiles" (inspired by [Joey Hess'
  dircombine](http://git.kitenet.net/?p=joey/home.git;a=blob;f=bin/dircombine))
  option to create symlinks from the root of a non-persistent
  directory (e.g. `$HOME`) to regular files stored in
  a persistent location (e.g. `.gitconfig`, `.vimrc`, etc.)

The code we ship lives in the `tmp-persistent-custom` branch in
our [[live-boot Git repository|contribute/git]]. We build packages
from the `master` branch in there, and drop them into the Tails main
Git repository.

### Example

Example `live.persist` configuration file:

	# destination       options
	/var/cache/apt
	/home/amnesia       linkfiles,source=dotfiles

This will result in:

* `$MEDIA/apt` is bind-mounted onto `/var/cache/apt`
* `/home/amnesia/` contains symlinks to every file in `$MEDIA/dotfiles`

User interface
--------------

### bootstrap persistent storage

A *Configure persistent storage* menu entry is the entry point to the
*bootstrap persistent storage* UI. This UI allows the user to set up
a persistent storage container in the free space left on the USB stick
by [[Tails Installer|installation]].

Choosing persistence is something *activelly* opt-in, i.e. "I want
this, I read the documentation for related information, then run the
setup tool", rather than something we throw to the face of every user
who did not think of it herself.

This UI is called `tails-persistence-setup` and its code lives in its
own [[contribute/Git]] (gbp-style) repository.

#### Design

Setting up a Tails persistent volume means:

* detect the device Tails is running from
* error out if not running from USB
* error out unless Tails was installed using Tails Installer (i.e.
  unless it's running from a GPT partition labeled `Tails`)
* error out if the device Tails is running from already has
  a persistent volume
* ask the user an encryption passphrase (welcome bonus: pointing to
  the relevant documentation about choosing a *strong* passphrase)
* create a LUKS-encrypted partition on the Tails USB stick
  - uses all the free space left by Tails Installer
  - labeled `TailsData`
  - create a filesystem in the encrypted container
  - give ownership on the filesystem to the default Tails user
* explain the user how/when/why to run the *configure which bits are
  persistent* UI

* **How/when to run?** Initially, we wanted to do so on first boot.
  However, to detect if a given Tails
  system is booting for the first time or not, every first boot must
  change something on the Tails system partition. We don't
  want to do this, hence the `tails-persistence-setup` will be run
  from the Applications menu by users who decide they want persistence.

* **Storage location**: To keep the GUI and documentation simple, we
  only support setting up a persistent volume *on the USB stick Tails
  is running from*. **Note**: the underlying tools (live-boot backend,
  tails-greeter) will support storage on whatever relevant device,
  though; moreover, `tails-persistence-setup` actually knows how to
  set up persistence on arbitrary devices, thanks to command-line
  options. Therefore, brave and advanced users can prepare their store
  their persistent data wherever they want, but this is not something
  we will actively support and document beyond the bare minimum
  (`--help` and manpage).

* **Filesystem** to create on the encrypted storage container: `ext3`
  looks like the safe bet. The default `ext3` journalling mode only
  journals metadata, not data, so the impact of journalling on Flash
  drives should be pretty minor.  Also, we could not find
  a [[!wikipedia Flash file system]] with mature enough support for
  block devices: they are rather targeted at raw access to
  MTD devices.

* **Integration with other configuration steps**: it seems doable to
  have `tails-persistence-setup` host both the *bootstrap persistent
  storage* and *configure which bits are persistent* user interfaces
  in a wizard-like way. The current code provides the foundations to
  do so, and the menu entry is called *Configure persistent storage*.
  One may call it using multiple `--step` options, and the UI will
  present every step sequentially; currently, the only implemented
  steps are `bootstrap`, `configure` (that implements the *configure
  which bits are persistent* UI) and `delete`.

* **Programming language**: written in Perl, i.e. the language the one
  of us who wrote it is the most efficient at.

* Partition / filesystem / LUKS management is done using `udisks`; the
  [[!tails_ticket 5820 desc="udisks bug wrt.
  partition attributes"]]
  is workaround'ed.

### Configure which bits are persistent

This is automatically run right after the persistent storage bootstrap
step. The user is enabled to change the configuration later.
Persistence settings changes are taken into account at next boot.

#### Design

* either persistence is currently enabled in read-write mode, and thus
  the persistence partition is already mounted; or the user is
  directly coming from bootstrap, and then we must mount the partition
  ourselves
* by default, set up a linkfiles-enabled persistent
  `${HOME}/dotfiles`, preconfigured to have its contents symlinked
  into `$HOME`.
* apart of this, let's consider non-directories persistence an
  advanced feature: to start with, and possibly forever, this could
  only be configured by manually editing live-persist file
* a few **presets** are made available (e.g. `~/.gnupg/`);
  technically, each of these has a name, optionally a short
  description and icon, and the needed information to make a simple
  directory persistent (e.g. make `/home/amnesia/.gnupg` persist,
  as the "gnupg" sub-directory of the persistent volume).
  The GUI
  displays every available preset, along with its current
  (enabled/disabled) status and available details (description, icon).
  tails-persistence-setup has means to
  merge its presets list with the configuration read from the input
  configuration file; to this end, it knows if a given preset
  is enabled in the input configuration file;
* by default, the current configuration is displayed as a list of
  items (= config lines); listed items may be toggled on/off; an *Add
  custom* button allows to enter custom source, destination (and
  comma-separated list of options?)

### Enable persistence at boot time

Choosing between various persistence modes is one of the reasons why
we've written a graphical [[!tails_ticket 5528 desc="boot menu"]]:
[[!tails_ticket 5496 desc="TailsGreeter"]].

#### Design

* asks whether to enable persistence at all;
* ask list of possibly valid persistent containers to `live-persist`
* initial implementation (MVC -speak): the model (`live-persist` and
  tails-greeter code that runs it) supports enabling multiple
  persistence containers, but the view (tails-greeter GUI) only
  supports *one* persistence container
* ask LUKS passphrase, deals with errors
* for a given persistent container, it's all or nothing: all bits of
  persistence configured in its `live.persist` are to be set up
* runs `live-persist` to set up persistent data where it belong
* pass information to the user session (at least
  `tails-persistence-setup` needs information) through shell variables
  set in `/var/lib/gdm3/tails.persistence`

backend / tails-greeter interface
---------------------------------

### Long story short

0. The user chooses to toggle persistence on in `tails-greeter`.
0. `tails-greeter` asks `live-boot` the list of possibly valid
   persistent containers.
0. For each such volume, `tails-greeter` asks the user to enter the
   passphrase or to skip it, and tries to unlock. `tails-greeter`
   deals with error catching, retrying, etc. as appropriate.
0. `tails-greeter` asks `live-boot` to set up persistence (at least
   custom mounts and linkfiles), passing it the list of volumes that
   were successfully unlocked.

### Interfacing

A `live-persist` script shall be written, implementing each kind of
`tails-greeter` to `live-boot` communication as a sub-command, such
as:

	live-persist [OPTIONS] list [LABEL]...
	live-persist [OPTIONS] activate VOLUME...

`live-persist` will report success and failure as any other
well-behaved synchronously-called shell script, that is: with
appropriate exit codes and `STDERR`.

### Possibly valid persistent containers

In our case, that is quite simple: it means removable LUKS encrypted
filesystem, stored on GPT partitions labeled `Tails-persistence` (or
similar, must be decided upon taking into account technical
restrictions such as what GPT supports).

This means we need to:

* make sure we can pass this desired label to `live-boot`, probably on
  the kernel command-line along with other parameters

In other (non-GPT) usecases, generally, it would be filesystems
labeled with `live-rw` or `home-rw`, but if they're on encrypted
device, then `live-boot` has to unlock the parent device them to see
the label; also, in non-Tails usecases, any encrypted filesystem may
contain a `*-rw` file, and must be unlocked to know too; so any
encrypted device may be a valid persistent container that is worth
passing to `tails-greeter`; . `live-persist` will support non-Tails
usecases on a best-effort basis, leaving room for improvement in case
other developers want to add support for their preferred usecases.

### Asking live-persist to set up persistence

To start with, we've factored out only the custom mounts part from the
main `live-boot` script; it depends on factoring out other kinds of
persistence (e.g. all types of unionfs-style filesystems) first.

<a id="additional-software-packages"></a>

Additional software packages
----------------------------

The `tails-additional-software` script installs a list of
additional software packages stored in persistence.

To this aim, the persistent volume root directory may contain
a `live-additional-software.conf` file that holds the list of packages to install
(from persistence, since they were cached already).

`live-persist` guarantees that this file, and its parent directory,
have correct access rights: owned by
`tails-persistence-setup:tails-persistence-setup`, and not be writable
by anyone else than the `tails-persistence-setup` user.

First, those additional software packages are installed offline by a systemd
user unit triggered by desktop.target. It starts a system unit of the same
name, which itself calls Additional Software Packages installation.

Then, once connected to the network, a NetworkManager dispatcher hook triggers
a systemd system unit which looks for upgrades if additional software were
activated (`apt update`, then `apt install` the additional software packages).
For some packages (e.g.  already running software) the change will only be
effective at next boot but hopefully a outdated version won't be used too long
in the meantime. To ensure that the upgrade started by a NetworkManager hook is
not racy with the installation, systemd unit is ordered after the installation,
and waits for its state file to appear.

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/lib/systemd/user/tails-additional-software-install.service]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/tails-additional-software-install.service]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/lib/systemd/system/tails-additional-software-upgrade.service]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/70-upgrade-additional-software.sh]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/tails-additional-software]]

<a id="security"></a>

Security
--------

The root directory of the persistent volume filesystem root is created
by the persistence configuration assistant, owned by `root:root`, with
permissions 0775:

* group-writable so that we can grant write access to other users with
  ACLs;
* world-readable for end-user's convenience;
* additionally, an ACL grants write access on this directory to the
  `tails-persistence-setup` user, so that it can edit the
  persistence configuration.

The persistence configuration assistant is run with password-less sudo
as the `tails-persistence-setup` dedicated user. It creates and
updates a configuration file called `persistence.conf`, that is owned
by `tails-persistence-setup:tails-persistence-setup`, with permissions
0600 and no ACLs. It refuses to read configuration files with
different permissions.

`live-persist` checks these permissions on the persistence root
directory, on `persistence.conf` and on
`live-additional-software.conf`. Then, `live-persist` disables every
such file, and refuses to set up any persistence feature, if the
persistent volume has wrong permissions. It also disables every such
file that has wrong permissions itself.

Migration from pre-0.21 persistent volumes
------------------------------------------

Before Tails 0.21, the persistent volume and configuration file had
weaker permissions. An attacker who could run arbitrary code as the
desktop `amnesia` user could tamper with the persistence
configuration, and — with some minimal amount of imagination — give
themselves persistent root credentials, etc.

A migration process, available in Tails 0.21, allowed users to move to
the new setup relatively safely and (in most cases) very easily.
This migration code was removed in Tails 0.22.

Still, after login, if some settings are found that were not fully
migrated, or never migrated at all (i.e.
if `live-additional-software.conf.disabled`, `live-persistence.conf`
or `live-persistence.conf.old` is found), a desktop notification makes
the user aware of it, and points them to the migration
documentation so that they can
learn how to migrate their configuration.
