[[!meta title="Random numbers"]]

As [[mentioned in the PELD spec|contribute/design#spec-entropy]], it
is not so easy to get good pseudo-random numbers in the context of
a Live system. This document describes how Tails behaves in this area,
and the work that is left to be done.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Entropy sources

In addition to the Linux kernel's own entropy gathering facilities,
Tails uses auxiliary entropy sources, that we describe below.

## haveged

Tails ships [HAVEGE](http://www.irisa.fr/caps/projects/hipsor/), that
fills `/dev/random` whenever the supply of random bits in
`/dev/random` falls below the low water mark of the device.
Quoting its homepage, HAVEGE "exploits these modifications of the
internal volatile hardware states as a source of uncertainty".

The default configuration shipped with the [[!debpts haveged
desc="Debian package"]] passes `-w 1024` to the `haveged` daemon.
That is, it sets `/proc/sys/kernel/random/write_wakeup_threshold`
to 1024.

## rngd

`rngd` gets entropy from a hardware RNG, if available. Otherwise, it
does not start. `rngd` feeds the `/dev/random` entropy pool until
`fill-watermark` bits are available. The `fill-watermark` defaults to
50% of the size of the entropy pool, which itself defaults to 4096
bits on Linux 3.14, so basically `rngd` feeds the entropy pool unless
there are already 2048 bits in it. The [[!debpts rng-tools
desc="Debian package"]] does not override this default configuration,
and neither does Tails.

Note: `rngd` (2-unofficial-mt.14-1) does not modify any parameter in
`/proc/sys/kernel/random/`.

## Simtec Electronics UDEKEY01 Entropy Key Daemon (ekeyd)

[[!debpts ekeyd]] uses the Simtec Electronics Entropy Key, when
available, to inject entropy into the kernel's pool.

# Remaining concerns

## HAVEGE reliability

haveged relies on the RDTSC instruction, that apparently is useless in
some virtualized environments. Also, the quality of random numbers
output by HAVEGE is unclear, and the topic of many discussions.

Further research on this topic is [[!tails_ticket 7102 desc="left to
be done"]].

This is why Tails also ships `rngd`. Still, it is not clear how these
two daemons [[act together|contribute/design/random#race]].

## Hardware RNG trustworthiness and availability

It is not clear how much one can trust a hardware RNG, that is hard,
if not impossible, to audit. Also, not all computers include
a hardware RNG.

This is why Tails also ships HAVEGE. Still, it is not clear how these
two daemons [[act together|contribute/design/random#race]].

<a id="race"></a>

## Interaction between haveged and rngd

This discussion only makes sense whenever a hardware RNG supported by
`rngd` is available. Otherwise, only `haveged` is used.

The way it is configured in Debian, haveged sets
`/proc/sys/kernel/random/write_wakeup_threshold` to 1024, so that
processes that are waiting to write to `/dev/random` are woken up
whenever less than 1024 bits of entropy is available. In practice,
this probably means that Linux wakes up both `haveged` and `rngd` more
or less at the same time.

In such a case, `haveged` tries to write as many bytes as needed to
fill the pool via a single `ioctl`, while `rngd` tries to write 512
bits (the default value of `random_step` being 64 bytes) at a time,
until the pool contains 2048 bits (default value of the pool water
mark). It's unclear which one wins the race. Let's discuss the
possible cases:

* If `haveged` always wins the case, then it is actually useless to
  run `rngd` at all.

* If `rngd` always wins the race, then it dominates the entropy pool,
  but shipping `haveged` is still useful when no hardware RNG
  is available.

* If who wins the race may change depending on the context, then it's
  still useful to ship both `rngd` and `haveged`: it achieves our goal
  of not relying purely on either one.

Note: this analysis was done by looking at the source code only, and
by someone who is not a C programmer. It would be good to confirm it,
either by reading the source code, or by running both programs in
verbose mode, or (ideally) both.

## Interaction between haveged, rngd, and ekeyd

This area is left to be researched.

## Random pool seeding

On Debian Wheezy, the `urandom` initscript seeds `/dev/urandom` at
boot time with the output of `date +%s.%N`, concatenated with the
content of `/var/lib/urandom/random-seed`. This file being included in
Tails ISO images, its content is fixed, public, and shared between all
systems running a given Tails release.

This seems to be wrong: [[!tails_ticket 7642]].

Not persisting the state of the entropy pools between Tails boots also
seems to be wrong: [[!tails_ticket 7675]].

## Early boot time

One should audit random numbers availability at early boot time:
[[!tails_ticket 6116]].
