[[!meta title="Reproducible builds"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Verification during release process

How is something verified to be reproducible? It is a matter of
definition, which ideally requires that every conceivable compatible
system should get the same result. As you'll see below we'll lower
this requirement slightly for practical purposes. :)

## Assumptions

1. The Release Manager (RM) is not evil! ♥

2. A compromised RM system can block arbitrary outgoing communication
   (e.g. email) so it cannot be trusted to initiate a check that's
   precisely meant to verify whether said system is compromised (and
   compromising our published products).

3. RMs don't plug their smartcard in a computer outside of the release
   process.

4. Our web site and the webserver that runs is is trusted (so much of
   other Tails stuff relies on this that we can't reasonably set the
   bar higher).

5. An attacker publishing a compromised Tails needs to update the IDF,
   UDFs and/or detached signatures to our website, and possibly replace
   a Git tag. If this is done through Git, there's a much greater
   chance we notice it after of our release process than during it. (If
   this is done directly on the web server, chances are that we don't
   notice it and it could even survive Git push and web site refresh,
   but it's out of scope here as said above.)

## Goals

Here are our high-level goals and their rationales.

1. Identify reproducibility bugs (ideally before releasing)

   * We are claiming that we release reproducible products. We don't
     want to lie to the world.
   * We will hopefully involve third-parties in the reproducibility
     verification process at some point; they'll need confidence that
     our products are reliably reproducible, otherwise they might be
     discouraged and stop even trying.
   * A reproducibility bug can be a symptom of another bug.

2. Identify compromised RM system and/or Tails products ASAP

   * Allow RMs to sleep better at night.
   * Avoid letting users use a compromised Tails.
   * OTOH, generally speaking, anything that has to be done in a tight
     time frame is stressful. Specifically, steps that block the
     release process are stressful because it's hard to predict when
     one will need to be available to go through them. This has a big
     impact on the "P" in "ASAP".

3. Ensure what we've tested (QA) and reproduced matches what is
   published

Furthermore, let's make the process _not_ depend on a few key persons
in a tight, not well defined time frame (e.g. during release
process). Availability is a serious constraint, and if e.g. the
architects of the reproducibility efforts are the only ones able to
follow the process it is an indication that the process probably is
too complex, which makes it prone for errors.

## Design and implementation

We do two reproducibility checks:

* For Goal 1, we do a sanity check that is only about identifying
  non-malicious bugs as soon as possible.

  - [[ISO|contribute/release_process#reproducibility-sanity-check-iso]]
  - [[IUKs|contribute/release_process#reproducibility-sanity-check-iuk]]
    (not very useful at the moment since Jenkins doesn't build IUKs)

* For Goals 2 and 3, we do
  [[a second reproducibility check|contribute/release_process/test#reproducibility-final-check]]
  after the RM
  has unplugged their OpenPGP smart card; this implies that the
  attacker must have had the compromised RM system sign compromised
  data earlier, and then either publish the compromised product during
  the confused release process time (when there's less chance for it
  to be noticed) or later (and then they have a good chance to be
  caught). This raises the bar for a successful attack a bit, although
  it leaves a window during which users can download a compromised
  Tails.

The rest of the time we're all careful about what's going on in the
UDFs, IDFs, detached signatures and Git tags. Of course, we should
have monitoring of these things and alerts whenever they change.
