[[!meta title="Tor stream isolation"]]

Tails implements basic Tor stream isolation, using functionality
described in
[Tor proposal 171](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.git/blob/HEAD:/proposals/171-separate-streams.txt).

Special needs
=============

Tails-specific applications
---------------------------

Tails-specific applications use a dedicated `SocksPort`, so that they
don't help trivial correlating of other kinds of network traffic with
Tails:

* incremental updates
* htpdate
* security check
* WhisperBack (not implemented: given no other application than
  WhisperBack has good reasons to talk to the hidden service used to
  relay the bug reports, and the default `SocksPort` has
  per-destination isolation on, we don't care that much isolating that
  one from others)

Web Browser
-----------

Until Torbrowser implements clever fine-grained stream isolation
([[!tor_bug 3455]]), Iceweasel is merely directed to a dedicated SOCKS port.

Destination address/port -based circuit isolation
-------------------------------------------------

Do we want to use `IsolateDestAddr` and/or `IsolateDestPort`?

Using these settings may help protecting against traffic correlation.
However:

* These settings are likely to have a performance impact on
  applications that connect to many remote hosts.
* These settings probably put more load on the network. On the other
  hand, the Tor people probably are happy with people using it given
  they have added the option in the first place. We will anyway ask
  them to review our proposed configuration with network load in mind
  before we ship it to the masses.

For performance reasons, we will start with *not* using
`IsolateDestAddr`/`IsolateDestPort` for iceweasel we ship: nowadays,
loading a mere web page often requires fetching resources from a dozen
or more remote sources. (Also, it looks like the use of
`IsolateDestAddr` in a modern web browser may create very uncommon
HTTP behaviour patterns, that could ease fingerprinting.)

Consider Pidgin with several accounts configured for different
identities. If you connect with all of the accounts at the same time,
they'll all get the same circuit, so the identities can be correlated.
While Tails does not formally support using multiple contextual
identities at the same time, Pidgin generally opens very few network
connections, so the performance impact of using `IsolateDestAddr`
should be small. Given how cheap it is, it looks like it is worth
having Pidgin use a (not necessarily dedicated) `SocksPort` that has
`IsolateDestAddr` and `IsolateDestPort` enabled.

For the same reason, we actually want to enable `IsolateDestAddr` and
`IsolateDestPort` for the `SocksPort` used by most applications,
unless we tell them otherwise.

The email client we ship is a special case: for the same
multiple-accounts reason as the IM client, we want `IsolateDestAddr`
for the MUA we ship. Adding `IsolateDestPort` to the mix would avoid
correlating unrelated email and IM accounts, *but* it breaks
POP-before-SMTP. Then, the MUA should use a `SocksPort` that has
`IsolateDestAddr` enabled, but `IsolateDestPort` disabled.

Implementation
==============

A few SOCKS ports are configured
in [[!tails_gitweb chroot_local-includes/etc/tor/torrc]]:

* default system-wide `SocksPort` (9050): `IsolateDestAddr` and
  `IsolateDestPort` enabled
* dedicated `SocksPort` for the email client (9061): `IsolateDestAddr`
  enabled
* dedicated `SocksPort` for Tails-specific applications (9062):
  `IsolateDestAddr` and `IsolateDestPort` enabled
* dedicated `SocksPort` for web browser (9151): no stream
  isolation options

Applications are configured to use the right SOCKS port:

- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/iceweasel/pref/iceweasel.js]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/iceweasel/profile/foxyproxy.xml]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/iceweasel/profile/user.js]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/init.d/htpdate]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/tor/tor-tsocks-mua.conf]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-security-check]]
- [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/torified-claws-mail]]
