We [[promise our users|about]] that everything the user does on the Internet
from Tails goes through the [Tor network](https://www.torproject.org/).

Here is how we interpret and implement this promise.

[[!toc levels=2]]

DNS
===

[[!inline pages="contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/DNS" raw=yes sort="age"]]

Network filter
==============

[[!inline pages="contribute/design/Tor_enforcement/Network_filter" raw=yes sort="age"]]

Other non-Tor traffic
=====================

When the user [allows Tails to connect to Tor
automatically](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/blueprints/-/wikis/network_connection#consent-question),
they consent to Tails initiating Internet activity without going through Tor, in
order to help them connect to Tor.

This can be useful, for example, to set the clock correctly or detect
captive portals.

Guidelines
----------

Here are the criteria we are taking into account when we design and implement
such non-Tor Internet activity:

- Do our best even when we can't be perfect: take into account less advanced
  adversaries too

  We should do our best to make it less obvious to less advanced adversaries,
  for example home/work surveillance (such as abusive partner or parents), even when
  we can't protect against more advanced ones (such as the ISP).

- Try to blend in: make the "anonymity set" as large as possible

  For example, if the best we can do is to look somewhat like a Fedora/Ubuntu
  user who has tor installed, it's already useful against some adversaries.

- Keep it simple to avoid maintenance churn

  Whenever we try to emulate the behavior of another piece of software than
  Tails in order to blend in, we should emulate software that we can understand
  easily and that does not change its behavior too often.

- Take into account connection patterns

  Two connections in a row or more to the same organization or hosting service
  may be more identifiable than 1 single connection, by said organization or by
  the user's ISP. So we should try to get as much information as we can from
  every such connection.

- Avoid services in a position to aggregate lots of data

  Omnipresent Internet actors, such as the NSA, Google, AWS, or Cloudflare, can
  correlate Tails' non-Tor activity with other data they aggregate. We should
  try to make it non-trivial to such adversaries that the connection is coming
  from a Tails user, to make such correlation more difficult.

- Use reliable services

  We're doing non-Tor connections in order to improve UX. If these connections
  rely on unreliable services, then we either have to take the risk that we'll
  get users confused, or spend more time of software design, development, and
  maintenance, in order to deal with the unreliability. Both outcomes are
  problematic, so we should try to connect to reliable services.

  In passing, note that falling back to another service when the first attempted
  one is unreliable, can be used as an identifiable pattern by both passive and
  active adversaries.

- Focus on users who chose to configure Tor automatically

  Keep in mind that this whole reasoning only makes sense in the context of
  a user who chose to configure Tor automatically, and allowed Tails to initiate
  non-torified Internet connection to facilitate this. The situations in which
  the user instead chose to hide Tor are out of scope here.

  To illustrate with our [[personas|contribute/personas]]:

  - Kim definitely has to hide Tor from home or school
    ⇒ out of scope
  - Riou and Cris might choose autoconfig or hide Tor depending on the context:
     - Cris should autoconnect when connecting from a domestic airport.
     - Riou might hide Tor when connecting from home.

  And then, when reasoning about such non-torified connections, we should focus
  on the cases when we recommend autoconfig: public networks or popular Tor
  usage for circumvention.

- Take into account subjective perception by users

  Some options may trigger bad feelings in users, which in some cases cannot be
  justified by a mere security analysis, because technically they would be the
  better choice to protect users. It does matter how safe users feel when they
  use Tails or consider to do so.

Case studies
------------

Here we evaluate a few candidate services that we might want to connect to,
to see how they perform regarding to the above guidelines.

Spoiler alert: there's no solution that perfectly follows all of our guidelines
so the decision will primarily depend on which threat models we want to optimize
for, that is our product strategy.

### Time synchronization

#### Candidates

- Google captive portal detection: only fails the "aggregation" guideline

  ⇒ perfect except when Google is a relevant adversary in the user's threat model

- Fedora's *NetworkManager* captive portal detection

  Run by Red Hat, some of it at AWS: only fails the "aggregation" guideline to
  some degree (Amazon can get the same data, and does not see the HTTP
  implementation details, but is probably less motivated to do so than Google).

  ⇒ On the one hand it's somewhat better than Google wrt. aggregation. On the
  other hand, the anonymity set is smaller when the ISP or home/work
  surveillance are relevant adversaries, since the DNS request is
  Fedora-specific.

- Debian's *NetworkManager* captive portal detection ([[!debpts network-manager-config-connectivity-debian]]):
  only fails the "blend in" guideline: has very few users (0.5% of Debian NetworkManager users according to popcon)

  ⇒ Bad if the ISP or home/work surveillance are relevant adversaries.
  Better than Riseup on all counts.

#### Dismissed options

We determined that each of these candidate options are strictly worse than
another one:

- Get the time from Riseup via a HTTPS request to https://riseup.net/canary (HTP)
  - fails the "connection pattern" guideline: short lived connection,
    not fetching related web resources ⇒ we don't blend into any existing
    anonymity set, be it from the ISP's perspective, or from Riseup's
  - reliability: good but not spotless; would perhaps not be a blocker
    if it were the only issue

  ⇒ Very bad if the ISP or home/work surveillance are relevant adversaries.

  Dismissed: worse than Debian's *NetworkManager* captive portal detection on all counts

- Ubuntu's *NetworkManager* captive portal detection:
  connectivity-check.ubuntu.com points to 3 Google IP addresses,
  so it leaks more info to the ISP, home/work surveillance, and Google,
  than to using Google's captive portal detection page directly

  Dismissed: worse than Google on all counts

- Firefox' captive portal detection
  - harder to track (internal implementation detail of Firefox, rather than
    a public API'ish setup like NM) → fails "Keep it simple". But at the moment
    it's just a document containing the string "success"
  - detectportal.firefox.com → AWZ and Google IP addresses → fails the
    "aggregation" guideline
  - Firefox uses NSS so emulating it is not a curl/wget call away, but probably
    not too hard either.

  Dismissed: worse than using either Google directly (DNS requests yield
  a smaller anonymity set) or Fedora@AWS (harder to implement and maintain)

- Ubuntu/Fedora NTP pool
  - cleartext, no authentication ⇒ the ISP can replay an old, bad, Tor consensus
  - only gives us the time ⇒ if we have to do another connection to detect
    captive portals anyway, we can get the time from that other connection (via
    HTP), and then there's no reason to do NTP on top. This could become
    a candidate again if we decided to implement time synchronization without
    captive portal detection.

Currently implemented
---------------------

At the time we're writing this, no such background non-torified
Internet connection is implemented in current Tails.
