[[!toc levels=2]]

Rationale
=========

Internet connections restricted by captive portals pose a problem in
environments like Tails, where all Internet traffic is routed through
Tor. There's a catch 22 since the portal cannot be reached before Tor
is working (and it most likely isn't reachable through Tor any way)
and Tor cannot work before logging in to the portal. Since most (if
not all) of these portals are web based, a web browser with direct
Internet access seem required for avoiding this problem.

Requirements
============

* It must run a completely separate browser profile from the
  Torified browser.
* It must be hard to start by mistake.
* It must be hard to mistake for the Torified browser.
* It must be configured to use the DNS provided by DHCP (which is required
  by some captive portals).
* It must be granted full access to the network so that any captive
  portals can be reached.
* It should be restricted access to as much information from the
  system as possible in case of leaks or compromise.

Implementation
==============

The aptly named *Unsafe Browser* implements all the above, although at
this time only a reasonable effort has been made to sandbox it to
fulfill the last point (restrict access to information).

User interface
--------------

The Unsafe Browser can be found in the `Applications -> Internet`
section (with a "warning triangle" as icon) and does the following
when started:

0. Show a dialog asking the user for verification, while also briefly
   explaining that the Unsafe Browser won't be anonymous.
0. "No" is the default answer, but if "Yes", we start a separate
   browser instance.
0. The browser is configured to use a theme with scary colors (red). To
   not raise suspicion the scary theme is not used when Windows
   camouflage is activated, but instead the normal Internet Explorer
   theme is used.
0. Its start page (locally stored) makes it clear that this is the Unsafe
   Browser and explains the issues involved with the Unsafe Browser
   and how to proceed from now on.

Security
--------

The Unsafe Browser is run by a separate `clearnet` user, wich is
allowed to make TCP connections to any port, and UDP DNS queries;
access to local services like Tor etc. are blocked so it cannot
interfere with them if compromised. Restricting the TCP ports to
HTTP(S) and DNS only is not done since some captive portals use
non-standard ports. Port restrictions are a pretty weak defense any
way since just *one* open port is enough to do anything.

The Unsafe Browser is run inside a chroot consisting of a throw away
aufs union between a read-only version of the pre-boot Tails
filesystem, and a tmpfs as the rw branch. Hence, the post-boot
filesystem (which contains all user data) isn't available to the
Unsafe Browser within the chroot. The chroot and aufs union is created
upon Unsafe Browser start, and is torn down after it exits, forcefully
killing any remaining processes run from inside it.

It should be noted that chroots are pretty weak jails, so an exploit
could easily escape it and have access to the complete filesystem (as
restricted for the `clearnet` user). Hence, the reason for using a
chroot is not for that purpose, but for separating its insecure
configuration from the rest of the Tails system. For instance, within
the chroot the DNS server obtained through DNS is configured as the
system resolver, which would be dangerous if used in the outside
system.

Code
----

* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/unsafe-browser]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/tails-shell-library/chroot-browser.sh]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/applications/unsafe-browser.desktop.in]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/etc/sudoers.d/zzz_unsafe-browser]]
* [[!tails_gitweb config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/tails-activate-win8-theme]]
