[[!meta title="Vagrant"]]

Tails can be [[built|contribute/build]] in a virtual machine that is managed
using [Vagrant]. Here lies more details on how Tails uses Vagrant, its
configuration, and how to create and upload the template virtual machine.

[Vagrant]: http://vagrantup.com/

Configuration
=============

Vagrant support files are located in the `vagrant` directory at the root of the
[[amnesia.git|contribute/git]] repository.

This directory contains:

 * `Vagrantfile`: [configuration file for Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com/docs/vagrantfile.html],
 * `provision/setup-tails-builder`: idempotent provisioning script that is
   run inside the virtual machine upon boot,
 * `provision/assets/build-tails`: build script to be run inside the
   virtual machine,
 * to build the Squeeze *base box*:
   - `definitions/squeeze/definition.rb`: Veewee configuration,
   - `definitions/squeeze/preseed.cfg`: preseed file used by the debian-installer,
   - `definitions/squeeze/postinstall.sh`: script run on first boot of the
     *base box*.

We choose to use the [Shell
provisioner](http://vagrantup.com/docs/provisioners/shell.html), as long as we
make this script reentrant it will lower the learning curve for contributors
not familiar with Puppet or Chef.

The Vagrantfile will share the `.git` directory of the local clone of the
repository. This is done to overcome limitations of VirtualBox shared folders
(namely *symlink support*). The build script will clone (and fetch further
changes) that "bare" repository.

Creating the *base box*
=======================

The creation of the *base box* is fully automated using a tool
called [Veewee].

[Veewee]: https://github.com/jedi4ever/veewee

Installing the requirements
---------------------------

To build the *base box* from scratch using Veewee, you will need to get both
Veewee and Vargant from Rubygems:

    # gem install --no-ri --no-rdoc vagrant
    # gem install --no-ri --no-rdoc veewee

*Note:* Unfortunately, using `gem --user` does not work. The `basebox`
subcommands that is made available by Veewee never shows up in Vagrant.
That needs to sorted out upstream.

*Note:* Installing the Veewee gem will install the Vagrant gem, even
if the Debian package is installed.

Running Veewee
--------------

Running Veewee has been automated using Rake. So creating the *base box* is
just a matter of running:

    $ http_proxy="http://proxy.lan:3142" rake basebox:create_basebox

Obivously, you can drop the `http_proxy` part if you don't have one.

The rest should be fully automatic, and leave you with a `squeeze.box` file in
the `vagrant` directory.

Update the distributed *base box*
---------------------------------

The *base box* on Tails mirrors is expected to lie at
`project/vagrant/squeeze.box`.

Do not forget to update the corresponding SHA256 sum in `vagrant/Vagrantfile`.

In details
----------

To create the *basebox* from the `squeeze` template (in `definitions`
directory), the command is the following:

    $ vagrant basebox build squeeze

> *Note:* It looks like the current version of the `virtualbox` gem is not
> compatible with VirtualBox 4.0.x that is in `squeeze-backports`. Using
> a hand made backport of virtualbox 4.1.12-dfsg-2 worked fine.

After issuing that command, Veewee will download the boot ISO image,
drive the debian-installer using [preeseding] and run `postinstall.sh` that
will take care of seting up the environment expected by Vagrant.

[preseeding]: http://www.debian.org/releases/stable/i386/apbs02.html

In order to support local HTTP proxy, the `preseed.cfg` is generated from an
ERB template during the Rake task `create_preseed_cfg`.

Once the initial setup is done, it is worthwhile to see if the *basebox*
fits Vagrant requirements. Veewee ships with an automated test suite:

    $ vagrant basebox validate squeeze

If everything goes well, then, great, we have our *basebox*. Let's export
it to a `.box` file that Vagrant can use:

    $ vagrant basebox export squeeze
