[[!meta title="Tails Verification (browser extension)"]]

Software verification is a critical step in the use of secure
applications but it has traditionally been hard to provide, especially
from a user perspective. Usual solutions are:

  - Using HTTPS to download. But in the case of Tails, we are serving so
    many downloads that we have to rely on [[mirrors hosted by third
    parties|contribute/design/mirrors]]. HTTPS also doesn't protect from interrupted downloads leading to
    broken Tails installations.
  - Providing OpenPGP signatures. But this really works only for the few
    people who know how to verify an OpenPGP signature and use the
    OpenPGP Web-of-Trust correctly.

We are trying here to provide a usable solution to verify a download
done through HTTP, while relying on cryptographic information fetched
elsewhere through HTTPS (and possibly with stronger authentication
mechanisms such as public key pinning from browser vendors).

We use for that a browser extension, called
*Tails Verification* which is available for

* Firefox 52+ (and Tor Browser 7+)
* Chrome 57+

i.e. browsers that support WebAPIs, in particular
[FileReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FileReader),
[Fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API), and
[async/await](https://caniuse.com/#feat=async-functions).

The code of *Tails Verification* is available in `git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/verification-extension`.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Related documents
=================

- [[Design document of the installation assistant, including the download page|installation_assistant]]

Scope
=====

Goals
-----

Provide a simple, automated, and cross-platform technique to verify installable
Tails images of the current version, in ISO and disk image format.

Non goals
---------

  - Verify deprecated Tails images.
  - Verify Tails images downloaded from nightly.tails.boum.org.
  - Verify Tails images downloaded through BitTorrent. If we can rely on
    our website to provide a correct cryptographic description of the
    Tails image then we can rely on it as well to provide a correct
    BitTorrent file. Then we rely on the BitTorrent client to verify the integrity of
    the download ([[!tails_ticket 9043]]).

However, any current Tails image (downloaded over BitTorrent, copied from a
friend, downloaded from one of our mirrors) can be verified by the extension.

<a id="verification"></a>

Security considerations
=======================

<a id="threat_model"></a>

Threat model
------------

We are considering here an attacker who can:

  - [A] Provide a malicious Tails image to the user for example by
    operating a rogue Tails mirror.

  - [H] Operate a website that is loaded in a different tab in the same
    browser as the extension. See the section on [[security inside the
    browser|verification_extension#inside_the_browser]].

We are not considering an attacker who can:

  - [B] Do a man-in-the-middle attack by providing a rogue HTTPS certificate
    for https://tails.boum.org/ signed by a certificate authority
    trusted by the browser but under the control of the attacker.

    Since the extension is targeted at new users, a MitM or exploit on
    our website could defeat any verification technique by providing
    simplified instructions or by faking Tails image verification.

    Note that our website is already in the HSTS preload list of Firefox
    and Chrome which forces HTTPS connections to our website, even for
    first time visitors.

  - [C] Insert malicious content on https://tails.boum.org/ through an
    exploit on our website as this could trick new users to skip the Tails
    image verification all the way. To prevent this kind of attack we
    should instead:

    - Monitor externally the most relevant parts of our website.
    - Work on integrating full upgrades in Tails Upgrader to limit the
      number of times people have to rely on our website to upgrade. See
      [[!tails_ticket 7499]].

  - [D] Insert malicious information in our main Git repository as such
    an attacker could do attack [C] as well.

  - [E] Insert targeted malware on the user's computer as this could
    defeat any possible verification mechanism that such an extension
    could do.

  - [F] Provide a rogue extension to the user as this could defeat any
    possible verification mechanism that such an extension could do.

  - [G] Insert malicious content on https://tails.boum.org/ after taking
    control of the web server, or entire system, behind it. Such an
    attacker could do attack [C] as well but in such a way that could be
    much harder to detect (for example by serving malicious content only to
    some users).

    To mitigate such an attack in some cases we could both:

    - Encourage external documentation (screencasts on YouTube, printed
      forms, etc.). But those would be vulnerable to other kind of
      attacks.
    - Not rely on the website to perform the Tails image verification and rely
      on a native interface accessible from the add-ons menu.

    But the cost/benefit of such a technique is not very appealing…

  - [I] Provide a malicious extension in the same browser as this would
    have similar effects to attack [F].

  - [J] Provide a malicious copy of our website on a similar looking URL
    that could pretend that verification has succeeded without actually
    verifying anything.

<a id="inside_the_browser"></a>

Security inside the browser
---------------------------

The threat described as [H] is taken care of by the internals of the
browser (and the proper coding of the extension).

### Cross-origin communication

The extension uses cross-origin communication to send messages to the download
page.

- To ensure that messages from the extension are only sent to pages on
  our website, the extension
  sets `targetOrigin` to `https://tails.boum.org` (no trailing slash needed) in
  [`postMessage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage).
  See commit c87ce92.

- Before processing the message, the download page verifies that it is
  coming from:

  - The same tab (`event.source` is `window`)
  - Our website (`event.origin` is `https://tails.boum.org`, no trailing slash needed)

  See [[!tails_gitweb wiki/src/install/inc/js/download.js
  desc="`receiveMessage()` in *download.js*"]].

- The code of the extension is loaded via content scripts and targets only tabs
  with locations `https://tails.boum.org/install/*` and
  `https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/*`. See `permissions` in *manifest.json*.

- On Chrome browsers, a background script reloads tabs with matching URL
  schemes (`https://tails.boum.org/install/*` and
  `https://tails.boum.org/upgrade/*`) only after the first installation of the
  extension, in order to make the extension usable right away. This is
  automatically happening in Firefox based browsers, therefore the background
  script does not apply.

- The communication is unidirectional: the extension only sends messages
  but it does not listen to messages.

### Content Security Policy

The extension uses a Content Security Policy with `default-src 'none'`
and `script-src 'self'`. The latter part has been added because
background scripts are needed by the extension, and require a slightly
less strict CSP. However, this CSP also applies to the content scripts
shipped in the extension.

<a id="update"></a>

Update mechanisms
-----------------

### Automatic update from browsers

- Chrome checks for updates "[every few
  hours](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/autoupdate)".
- Firefox checks for updates once per day.
- Tor Browser doesn't prevent those updates [except for Torbutton and
  Tor Launcher](https://lists.torproject.org/pipermail/tbb-dev/2015-April/000258.html).

### Enforce version check on our download page

On top of this, the HTML code of our download page includes a tag to
force a minimum version of the extension. For example:

<pre>
&lt;div id="extension-version"&gt;2.0&lt;/div&gt;
</pre>

*Tails Verification* checks the value of this tag and asks for an
update if its version is lower than the requested version number.

This mechanism might be useful to force updated extensions with a finer
time granularity that the native automatic updates from the browsers.

<a id="technology"></a>

Functioning
===========

Extension technology
--------------------

The extension is written as a *Web Extension* and the same exact code
works on both Firefox and Chrome.

Future plans include abandoning the extension and integrating the code directly
into our website, with the aim of supporting more browsers. [[!tails_ticket
16128]].

<a id="data_source">

Data source
-----------

Building upon the format specified for [[upgrade description
files|contribute/design/incremental_upgrades#upgrade-description-files]],
the verification extension fetches an [[!tails_gitweb
wiki/src/install/v2/Tails/amd64/stable/latest.json desc="image description
file"]] from our server to retrieve all the information it needs about
available Tails images (URL, size, checksum, etc.).

The file format allows to publish several target files, and formats, such as
ISO and IMG.

It currently publishes only information about the current stable supported
Tails release. A more fine grained approach is planned [[!tails_ticket 16200]].

Currently, this image description file is not signed using OpenPGP.

### Example of an image description file

<pre>
{
    "build_target": "amd64",
    "channel": "stable",
    "installations": [
        {
            "installation-paths": [
                {
                    "target-files": [
                        {
                            "sha256": "2ffeacab6ad74671a9eb15b560f47bae7d22e1bcbd9735342ee6d7dfe3c5706e",
                            "size": 1225568256,
                            "url": "http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-amd64-3.11/tails-amd64-3.11.iso"
                        }
                    ],
                    "type": "iso"
                },
                {
                    "target-files": [
                        {
                            "sha256": "cafedeadbeaf67213970783432cafe0dead9beefbd9735342ee6d7dfe3c5706e",
                            "size": 1225765432,
                            "url": "http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-amd64-3.11/tails-amd64-3.11.img"
                        }
                    ],
                    "type": "img"
                }
            ],
            "version": "3.11"
        }
    ],
    "product-name": "Tails"
}
</pre>

Checksum verification
---------------------

When verifying a Tails image, the extension:

  - Downloads the image description document (url, size, checksum) from:

    <https://tails.boum.org/v2/Tails/amd64/stable/latest.json>

  - Verifies the image downloaded (ISO or IMG) against the document (first its
    size, then its checksum).

Security properties:

  - This technique would defeat attack [A] (malicious Tails image).

More complex verification mechanisms could be gradually built in to
defeat attacks [B], [C], [D], [F], and [G].

Embedded *Forge* library
------------------------

Contrary to its predecessor
([DAVE](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/download-and-verify-extension)),
*Tails Verification* cannot rely on native API calls to calculate the
checksum. So it embeds the *Forge* library:

<https://github.com/digitalbazaar/forge/>

We chose *Forge* because it was reported as being the fastest in this
benchmark:

<https://github.com/brillout/test-javascript-hash-implementations>

<a id="html">

Manipulation of the download page
---------------------------------

The extension modifies what is displayed on the page using two different
mechanisms:

- Mostly through message communication (`postMessage`) sent to a
  script on the page ([[!tails_gitweb wiki/src/install/inc/js/download.js]]).

- If an extension is already installed when the page is loaded, through
  an HTML attribute (`documentElement.dataset.extension`) corresponding
  to some CSS declarations, to indicate whether the extension is
  up-to-date or outdated.

This decouples the code of the extension from the implementation of the
display on the HTML page (ids, classes, etc.).

When JavaScript is disabled, the page instructs the user to temporarily
allow JavaScript on the page (through NoScript, the most likely scenario):

[[!img install/inc/screenshots/allow_js.png link="no"]]

They can otherwise still download using BitTorrent.
