[[!meta title="Virtualization"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

FIXME: shouldn't the paragraph "Tails and Virtualization" from [[walkthrough]]
come here?

Security issues
===============

When running Tails inside a virtual machine, both the host operating system
and the virtualization software are able to monitor what you are doing in
Tails. Moreover traces are likely to be left on the local hard disk.

That's why Tails warns you when you are running it inside a virtual
machine. Do not expect Tails to protect you if you run it in a virtual
machine if you do not trust the host computer, Tails is not magical!

If you read this warning while you are not aware to be using a virtual
machine:  there could be a [[bug|found_a_problem]] in the
virtualization detection software Tails uses... or something really
weird is happening.

If you are unsure, and if you can afford it, just run Tails from a CD
or USB stick.

Tips and tricks
===============

Some [[support/virtualization/tips]] can help making the host
operating system and virtualization software a tiny bit more secure.

# Extract from the old documentation

**FIXME**: following this is an extract from the old walkthrough. To be merged
with the rest of the document.

## <a name="vm"></a>Tails and Virtualization

**FIXME**: merge with stuff in Introduction, with [[virtualization]]

Certain users might not want to restart the computer every time they
wish to use the Internet anonymously with Tails. For those, a so
called [virtual machine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_machine)
can be used to run Tails inside the "host" operating system
installed on the computer (e.g. Microsoft Windows, Mac OS X, etc.).
Essentially these programs emulate real computers that you can run
"guest" operating systems (in this case Tails) in so they appear in
a window within the host operating system. Using one of these
technologies allows for convenient access to Tails's features in a
protected environment while you at the same time have access to your
normal operation system.

There are a few security issues with this approach though. The main
issue is if the host operating system is compromised with a software
keylogger or virus, which Tails does not provide any protection
against (in fact, that is impossible). Secondly, performance is a
usually a bit worse compared to running it on its own. As such, this
is only recommended when the other alternative is not an option or
when you are absolutely sure that your host system is clean.
Additionally, some of these virtual machines are closed-source, so it
is very difficult to determine if they do something that could break
Tails's security. In conclusion, use virtual machines with care.

### QEMU

**FIXME**: This section have not been adapted now so please do not take it into
account. Tails doesn't currently include QEMU (0.7.2).

The open source [QEMU](http://bellard.org/qemu/) processor emulator
and virtualizer handles Tails nicely. In fact, QEMU is included in
the Tails distribution for Microsoft Windows users (more about this
[below](#windows)). In order to start it from the command-line, simply
type something like:

<pre>
	<code>qemu -usb -soundhw sb16 -localtime -boot d -cdrom
	/path/to/incognito.iso</code> </pre>

If you have severe performance problems you should look into KQEMU
which is an accelerator module for QEMU, granting a more direct access
to the systems hardware for additional speed. You will most likely
need administrator privileges for installing KQEMU.

### VMWare

**FIXME**: This section have not been adapted now so please do not take it into
account.

Tails works very well in [VMWare](http://www.vmware.com/) with the
following [VMWare Virtual
Appliance](http://files1.cjb.net/incognito/incognito-vmware-1.0.zip)
([signature](http://files1.cjb.net/incognito/incognito-vmware-1.0.zip.asc))
devised by the Tails developers. Simply unzip the file and follow
the provided instructions in `README.txt` which is provided within the
archive. The free ([as in
beer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gratis_versus_Libre)) [VMWare
Player](http://www.vmware.com/products/player/) might be useful for
this. In order to get good performance you will probably need
administrator privileges in the computer when you install VMWare. Note
that VMWare is closed source, so it might be hard to determine if it
does anything that is bad for anonymity, although it is unlikely.

### VirtualBox

Tails runs in [VirtualBox](http://virtualbox.org) without any major conifuration
necessary. VirtualBox is distributed both as a closed-source and as an
open-source (the so called OSE or Open Source Edition), the latter which the
Tails developer's encourages (although it currently lacks USB support compared
to the closed-source version).

## <a name="windows"></a>Running Tails from within Microsoft Windows

**FIXME**: This section have not been adapted now so please do not take it into
account. It is currently not integretad to start under Windows with QEMU.

Thanks to QEMU, [described above](#vm), Tails can be run within
Microsoft Windows without the need to restart the computer. QEMU ships
with Tails, and is set up so you only have to insert the media when
Windows is running and a menu should appear with the option to start
Tails through it. This is especially useful when you are using a
computer you are not allowed to shut-down, which can be the case for
public computers in certain Internet cafés, libraries or other public
computers. Also, for some some general remarks on QEMU and Tails,
and some security concerns about this mode of operation, see the above
section on [Tails and Virtualization](#vm).

Since the Tails developers do not have access to any Windows
computers at the moment, any input if this actually works and how it
performs etc. is welcome.

