[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick, for Linux"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

**Warning!** If at some point you are not sure about a device name it is
recommended to stop proceeding otherwise **you might risk overwriting any hard
drive on the system**. Proceed at your own discretion! We admit that this method
is pretty crude at the moment and we are working on a more intuitive one.

1st method: from an ISO image
=============================

If you [[downloaded|download]] an ISO image (the source), use this method to
create a bootable USB stick (the destination) from it.

### Step 1: Find out the name of the destination USB stick

The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about it's precise name, open the log file viewer from
*Applications* → *System Tools* → *Log File Viewer* and click on the `messages`
file in the left column.

Unplug and plug back the destination USB stick: some new lines should appear in
bold at the end of the file. Search in those lines for the first occurrence of a
`removable disk` named `sd`<em>something</em>.

In the example on this screenshot the destination USB stick was named `sdc`
and so the device name would be `/dev/sdc`. Yours could de different.

![Logs containing [sdc]: "Attached SCSI removable
disk"](linux/destination-usb.png)

### Step 2: Do the copy from the terminal.

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` by the path to your Tails
image and `[destination]` by the name found in step 1.

	cat [tails.iso] > /dev/[destination] && sync

If you are not sure about the path to your ISO image or get a "No such file or
directory" error you can insert the correct path in the command by first typing
*cat * and then dragging and dropping the icon of the ISO image on the terminal
before typing the rest of the command.

You could get something like this:

    cat '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' > /dev/sdc && sync

### Step 3: Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than an hour. Be
patient…

2nd method: from another running Tails CD or USB
================================================

If you are already able to run Tails from a CD or a USB stick (the source), use
this method to clone it onto another USB stick (the destination).

### Step 1: Boot Tails from the source CD or USB stick.

### Step 2: Find out the device name of the source Tails.

<!--
FIXME: All these steps (both in 3 and 4) would be a lot easier using *Disk
Utility*. Now that Tails 0.7 (based on Squeeze) is out, this part
shall be rewritten to use it.

[[!tag todo/documentation]]
-->

If you're running Tails from a CD the device name should be `/dev/cdrom`.

If you're running Tails from a USB stick, the device name should be something
like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about it's precise name, open the log file viewer from
*Applications* → *System Tools* → *Log File Viewer* and click on the `messages`
file in the left column.

Search for the first occurrence of a `removable disk` named
`sd`<em>something</em>. If you only have your Tails USB stick plugged in it
should be the right one.

In the example on this screenshot the source USB stick was named `sdb` and so
the device name would be `/dev/sdb`. Yours could be different.

![Logs containing "[sdb]: Attached SCSI removable
disk"](linux/source-usb.png)

### Step 3: Find out the device name of the destination USB stick.

The device name should be something like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.

If you're not sure about it's precise name, follow the step 1 of the 1st method.

### Step 4: Copy the source Tails onto the destination USB stick.

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing `[source]` by the name found in step 2
and `[destination]` by the name found in step 3.

    cat /dev/[source] > /dev/[destination] && sync

In the example from the screenshots the command would be:

    cat /dev/sdb > /dev/sdc && sync

### Step 5: Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than a hour. Be
patient…

Troubleshooting
===============

### cat: /dev/sdx: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake in the device names.

### cat: /dev/sdc: Permission denied

You might also have committed a mistake in the device names, so please
double-check them. If you're sure about the device names, this could be a
permission problem and you could need to gain root privileges before running the
command in the terminal. That could be:

    sudo su -
    cat [tails.iso] > /dev/[destination] && sync

### cat: tails.iso: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake on the path to your ISO image in step
2 of the 2nd method.

