[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick, for Mac"]]

**Warning!** If at some point you are not sure about a device name it is
recommended to stop proceeding otherwise **you might risk overwriting any hard
drive on the system**. Proceed at your own discretion! We admit that this method
is pretty crude at the moment and we are working on a more intuitive one.

### Step 0: Setup rEFIt.

You need to have [rEFIt](http://refit.sourceforge.net/) installed and
working on the mac.

If you need help with rEFIt, look at [their installation
documentation](http://refit.sourceforge.net/doc/c1s1_install.html).

### Step 1: Find out the device name of the destination USB stick.

The device name should be something like `/dev/disk1`, `/dev/disk2`, etc.

If you're not sure about the precise device name, do the following.

Unplug the destination USB stick.

Open Terminal from *Applications* → *Utilities* → *Terminal.app*:

Type the following command:

     diskUtil list

This will list all the current storage devices:

[[!img mac/diskUtil_list_empty_small.png link=no alt="Empty list"]]

Plug back the destination USB stick and run the same command as before:

	 diskUtil list

A new device should appear in the list of storage devices.
Check that the size of the device corresponds to your destination USB drive.
In my case the USB drive is 4.0 GB and the location is /dev/disk1:

[[!img mac/diskUtil_list_USB_shows_small.png link=no alt="A new storage device appeared at the end of the list"]]

### Step 2: Partition the USB drive.

In the terminal window you have open issue the following command,
replacing the destination with the device name found in step 1.

    diskUtil partitionDisk [destination] 1 APMFormat JournaledHFS+ Tails 100%

[[!img mac/diskUtil_partitionDisk_small.png link=no alt="Partitioning the USB drive"]]

### Step 3: Unmount the USB drive.

In the terminal window issue the following command, again replacing the destination
with the device name found in step 1.

     diskUtil unmountDisk [destination]

[[!img mac/diskUtil_unmountDisk_small.png link=no alt="Unmounting the USB drive"]]

### Step 4: Do the copy from the terminal.

In the terminal window issue the following command, replacing `[tails.iso]` by the path to the ISO
image that you want to copy and `[destination]` by the device name found in step
1.

	cat [tails.iso] > [destination] && sync

If you are not sure about the path to the ISO image or if you get a "No such
file or directory" error, you can first type `cat`, followed by a space, and
then drag and drop the icon of the ISO image from a file browser onto the
terminal. This should insert the correct path to the ISO image in the terminal.
Then type the rest of the command.

You should get something like this:

    cat /Users/tailsuser/Downloads/tails-i386-0.10.1.iso > /dev/disk1 && sync

[[!img mac/cat_copy_to_USB_small.png link=0 alt="Copying the tails.iso to the USB drive"]]

### Step 5: Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, generally a few minutes. Be patient…

### Step 6:

Reboot your Mac while holding the *command* / *apple* key and select
the USB drive to boot from the rEFIt menu.

Notes
=====

Note that Tails developers are in general not very knowledgeable about
Mac. Any additional information is welcome.
