[[!meta title="Tails Installer"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Installing Tails on a USB stick is the most common and the
recommended scenario for using Tails as it allows automatic upgrades and
persistence. DVDs are also getting less and less popular.

But as of 2016, installing Tails on a USB stick still:

  - Requires going through the command line sometimes, for example on Mac OS X.
  - Requires going through an intermediary USB stick or DVD which is more
    complex, slower, and relies on third-party software (eg. UUI).

Future work
===========

Do we really need a custom installer?
-------------------------------------

While working on porting Tails Installer to Debian and Ubuntu in 2015, we came
to question the future of *Tails Installer* in many ways. On the one hand, it's
a lot of work to maintain and port custom programs like *Tails Installer* and
we would be happy to lower this workload by relying on other installation
techniques or programs that would not be custom to Tails; on the other hand,
having a custom installer gives us much more control and possibilities in terms
of features proposed to the user and trust that we can put in a software that
we make and distribute ourselves.

What could we use instead of Tails Installer?

  - Other multiplatform USB installers

    - None of the usual suspects (YUMI, Unetbooting, Rufus, etc.) work on
      Linux, Windows, and OS X.
    - New tools for flashing disk images on SD cards for Raspberry Pies are
      appearing, like [[!tails_ticket 11348 desc="Etcher"]] but they are too
      green to be reliable.

  - Core utilities from other operating systems

    - GNOME Disks has a way to copy a disk image on a block device.
    - Mac OS X supports only some formats. ([[!tails_ticket 8802]])
    - We couldn't found such utility for Windows. ([[!tails_ticket 8550]])

Porting Tails Installer to Windows and Mac OS X
-----------------------------------------------

Porting Tails Installer to Windows and Mac OS X would provide a consistent and
simple way for installing Tails across all platforms and remove the need for an
intermediary USB stick or DVD. Still, this would require a massive amount of
work and skills that will be very hard to gather.

We started doing a feasibility study for:

  - [[Porting Tails Installer to Windows|blueprint/Port_Tails_Installer_to_Windows]].
  - [[Porting Tails Installer to OS X|blueprint/Port_Tails_Installer_to_OS_X]].

<a id="simplify"></a>

Simplify the interface by removing the splash screen
----------------------------------------------------

The current interface of *Tails Installer*, with its complicated splash screen,
pushes to much cognitive load to the user. For example, there is no point in
proposing to upgrade if there is no Tails installed on the USB stick already. Instead,
building some more logic into the code would allow asking the user only
for the decisions that makes sense for her to take and at the time when it
makes more sense for her to take them.

More concretely, we should progressively add to *Tails Installer* the
possibility to:

1. Autodetect if the destination USB stick has Tails installed already, without making
   this visible to the user yet, but that's a prerequisite for the
   next steps.
2. Simplify the splash screen thanks to the autodetection code:
   - In Tails, merge "Install by cloning" and "Upgrade by cloning" into one single
   "Clone" button. And, depending on whether the destination device already
   has Tails installed or not, dynamically change the label of main 
   action button to "Install" or "Upgrade".
   This breaks the "re-installing Tails from scratch" use case,
   but we document how to uninstall Tails, so that's no big deal.
   ([[!tails_ticket 9006]])
   - Outside Tails, remove the splash screen.
3. If the destination device already has Tails installed, add a second
   button below or side-by-side with the "Install" button with the label 
   "Upgrade". This allows again to choose whether to reinstall Tails
   from scratch or to upgrade the existing installation.
4. When using Tails Installer in Tails (as opposed to using Tails Installer
   from another OS), remove the splash screen and add a "Clone"
   button to the main interface. ([[!tails_ticket 8859]])

Other nice bonuses would be:

- Make it possible to "Upgrade from ISO" from
  the command line, for the [[Debian expert|install/expert/usb]] instructions. ([[!tails_ticket 8861]])
- Make it possible to "Install from ISO" from
  the command line, for the [[Debian expert|install/expert/usb]] instructions. ([[!tails_ticket 8861]]).
- Store version of Tails on destination key after install and upgrade. ([[!tails_ticket 8863]])
  - This would allow to display the installed version in "Target Device". ([[!tails_ticket 8862]])

ISO verification
----------------

In 2015 we created a [[Download and Verify Extension|contribute/design/dave]]
for Firefox but its verification capacities are limited as can be seen in its
[[thread model|contribute/design/dave#index4h2]].

A stronger solution might be to do the OpenPGP verification automatically from
Tails Installer. Users have to trust Tails Installer anyway (currently *on top
of* trusting the ISO image) and most modern operating systems have software
distribution mechanisms that are quite strong, hopefully stronger than plain
HTTPS (Debian's *APT*, Apple's *Mac App Store*, etc.).

  - Automating the OpenPGP verification would be easy to achieve on
    Linux but would require more research for other platforms.
  - Do we want Tails Installer to include the Tails signing key or to rather
    depend on external mechanisms to fetch and verify the signing key? Thinking
    about key transitions…
  - Should we allow people to burn DVDs from Tails Installer as well? If Tails
    Installer becomes the recommended tool for verifying Tails, it makes
    sense to be able to burn DVDs from it.
  - We should still allow expert users to build more trust in our signing key through
    the OpenPGP WoT.

Endless full upgrades
---------------------

As of now, Tails Installer is also used to do full upgrades. We want to be able
to do this in Tails Upgrader instead.  See the [[blueprint on endless
upgrades|endless_upgrades]]. This might duplicate or conflict with some of the
work proposed to [[simplify the interface|installer#simplify]].
