[[!meta title="ISO verification"]]

Vision
======

We have always pushed our users to verify our ISO images. But so far
this has been a complicated task, as it mainly relies on OpenPGP. But
we cannot ask newcomers to know OpenPGP before they get an ISO image
they can trust. So we want to automate this verification as much as
possible, while leaving the room for expert users to do more extensive
verification if they want to.

Over 2015, we will be working on a [[browser extension|extension]] to
integrate ISO verification in the download process.

In this blueprint, we propose to go even further and imagine what we
could do next. We initially considered two scenarios:

  - Pushing more verification logic into the browser extension.
  - Pushing some verification logic into Tails Installer. This goes
    along with having a multiplatform installer, which would be a huge
    UX improvement of its own.
  - Automating inside Tails the download and verification of ISO images
    for full upgrades.

We're currently considering more seriously the option of pushing more
verification logic into Tails Installer. It could then:

  - Automate OpenPGP verification. That would be easy to achieve on
    Linux and would need more research for other platforms. Note that
    having a super secure verification process on Windows might not be
    relevant.
  - Do download correlation of our signing key, and check it against the
    Debian keyring on Debian and derivatives.
  - Allow people to burn DVDs from Tails Installer as well. If Tails
    Installer becomes the recommended tool for verifying Tails, people
    should be able to burn DVDs from it.
  - Allow expert users to build more trust in our signing key through
    the OpenPGP WoT.

The advantages of going this way instead of pushing more verification
logic into the browser extension are that:

  - More people will be able to work on such code.
  - We will not rely on browsers for serious cryptography.
  - We will have less implementation restrictions than inside browser extensions.

The cons:

  - The verification using OpenPGP might be harder to port to Windows
    and OS X. But we are ready to provide lower standards of
    verification for them.
  - How would people verify Tails Installer on Windows and OS X? Maybe
    the browser extension could do that by then.
  - The browser extension will lose some of its relevance. It will
    still be useful until we get there, and maybe to verify Tails
    Installer.

<a id="seahorse"></a>

About the removal of Seahorse Nautilus
======================================

As of now, we are explaining how to [[verify ISO images using
`seahorse-nautilus` for GNOME|doc/get/verify_the_iso_image_using_gnome]].
While reworking the ISO verification scenarios, we pretty much settled on the
idea of removing Seahorse Nautilus as a verification option, at least from the
assistant. Here is why.

Once we get the Firefox extension for ISO verification, Seahorse Nautilus will
partly duplicate its work. We could then recommend one, the other, or both to
people with GNOME.

The idea behind Seahorse Nautilus was to allow an OpenPGP verification even for
people with no or little understanding of OpenPGP. The advantages are:

  - seahorse-nautilus runs from outside of the browser.
  - seahorse-nautilus can be authenticated through APT even in Debian
    Wheezy (via backports).
  - If you get the right OpenPGP key, you rely on Tails developers and not on the
    the webserver used for downloading the ISO.

But documenting Seahorse Nautilus has we have been doing until now is only
stronger than the Firefox extension if TOFU is done well. And we believe that
this requires explaining much more that what is intended for a first-time Linux
user:

  - TOFU only work if trusted once :) While with Seahorse Nautilus, importing
    the same key, or a different key for the same email address several times
    produces the same notification: "Key Imported". In order to have our users do
    TOFU for real, we would have to go through the list of existing keys and
    check whether it's imported or not.
  - What happen if we revoke our signing key? We'd have to explain how to
    remove the old key and how to import the new key. Whereas the browser
    extension (either through HTTPS or OpenPGP) could do that job on its own.

So we think that this is too much for the assistant, and everybody should
instead go through the browser extension. Still, Seahorse Nautilus might still
fit in the advanced documentation for OpenPGP verification.
