[[!meta title="How to transition to GitLab"]]

This page is meant for existing Tails contributors, who need to adjust
their existing setup and habits to GitLab.

[[!toc levels=2]]

Activate your GitLab user account
=================================

If you have ever done anything on our Redmine, you now have a GitLab
user account. To activate it:

1. Visit the [[!tails_gitlab users/password/new desc="Reset Password page"]]
   in a web browser.
2. Enter the email address you were registered with on Redmine.
3. Click _Reset Password_.
4. Follow the instructions in the email you receive.
5. Confirm your email address:
   1. Visit <https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/users/confirmation>
      in a web browser.
   2. Enter your email address.
   3. Click _Resend_.
   4. Follow the link you got by email.

Update your Git configuration
=============================

For every repository that's listed in
[[!tails_gitlab tails/ desc="the `tails` GitLab group"]],
except `tails/jenkins-jobs` and `tails/puppet-*`:
if you have a local clone of that repository,
you need to points its Git remote to GitLab.

Here's how to do that:

1. Find the remote URL with the _Clone_ button on the corresponding
   GitLab project.

2. Run a command in the directory of your local clone.

   The exact command depends on the remote URL,
   on the name you gave to that remote,
   and on whether you want to use HTTPS or SSH.

   For example, you would run:

       git remote set-url origin \
           https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails.git

   or:

       git remote set-url origin \
           git@gitlab-ssh.tails.boum.org:tails/tails.git

3. Remove any obsolete `insteadOf` configuration you may have in `~/.gitconfig`,
   `~/.config/git/config`, and in this repository's `.git/config`. These could
   lead to problems that are hard to debug.

4. Update submodules.

   For example, for `tails.git` you would run:

       rm -rf submodules .git/modules/submodules
       git submodule sync
       git submodule update --init

Note: some repositories have not been migrated to GitLab yet ([[!tails_ticket
17605]]). That's why you need to do this operation on a per-clone basis,
and not globally.

Use GitLab
==========

See the corresponding documentation:

 - [[how Tails uses GitLab|contribute/working_together/GitLab]]

 - [[Git repositories|contribute/git]]

Known issues
============

There is currently no known issue.
