[[!meta title="Writing code for Tails"]]

Hi, prospective Tails contributor! This document is intended to
quickly (in 20 minutes!) get you up to speed on how to write code for
Tails by giving a brief overview the Tails source tree and Git branch
organization without referring to more detailed (and hence longer)
resources. As such it might not be enough for some specific things,
but it should cover 95% of use cases for aspiring code
contributors. Also, this document risks getting out of date, so don't
trust every single detail as the written word of `$DEITY`.

Note that this document will not teach you how to *contribute* code to
Tails; it will only introduce you how to *write* code for Tails. Once
you have something to contribute, please read our
[[extensive instructions for contributors|contribute/how/code]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Git branch organization

* `master`: as soon as something is pushed to this branch in Tails
  main git repository, the live Tails' website is rebuilt. This branch
  is *only* used for the website. Don't waste time trying to build it,
  or basing new branches on it if you intend to build them!

* `devel`: This is the development branch, where new features end
  up. In general you should base new branches on this one.

* `stable`: When a new major Tails release is out, we merge `devel`
  into `stable` and use it to build bugfix releases (e.g. when there's
  a new Tor Browser (= Firefox ESR) release) and emergency releases
  from. We only merge security fixes and bugfixes into this branch, so
  new such branches should be based on `stable`.

* `testing`: After a freeze for a new major release (e.g. when we
  prepare release candidates), this is the branch were the continued
  work for this release happens. At that point `devel` is used for the
  *next* major release. Bugfixes on new features introduced in the
  this upcoming Tails release should be based on this branch (as
  should new translations).

* `feature/DEBIAN_NEXT`: The development branch for Tails based on the
  next Debian major release.

* `feature/XXXX-*`, `bugfix/XXXX-*`, `test/XXXX-*`: We use this naming
  scheme for the branches if new features, bugfixes and automated
  tests, where `XXXX` refers to the Redmine ticket they fix.

We will sometimes talk about "base branches", which are `stable`,
`testing`, `devel` and `feature/DEBIAN_NEXT`. When developing a new
branch, this should be the branch you based it on. It will be used
during the build to determine which packages from Tails APT repo to
install (see some details about this below).

For detailed information see our
[[documentation about Git|contribute/git]].

# Important files and directories

Some of the more important files during build, and for running Tails
sessions, are listed below. In general, just look at the existing
files or content to understand the format -- we won't explain them
fully here most of the time.


## config/chroot_sources/

The files in here determine which APT repositories to use during
build, and in the resulting Tails image.

Note that while it is possible to add non-Debian repositories, and
that it is fine to do so for testing/development purposes, limitations
inherent in Tails' APT snapshot system (see below) prevents us from
using them in releases. In fact, in releases we can only use:

* Debian's APT repository
* `deb.torproject.org`
* `deb.tails.boum.org`

So, if you need a package from some other repository, feel free to add
through this mechanism it when developing your branch. When it's time
to merge we will figure out the best way to get the packages available
to us, usually by importing them to `deb.tails.boum.org`. The
preferred solution is always to have the packages available in
Debian.


## config/chroot_apt/preferences

The `/etc/apt/preferences` file that will be used during the build
process, and later copied in to the resulting Tails filesystem. We use
it *heavily*. If you want to install a package (or another version of
a package) that is not in the stable Debian release, you will have to
add a pinning rule in this file in order to make it install.


## config/chroot_local-packageslists/tails-common.list

The primary list of packages to install in Tails. Sometimes extra
magic has to be done when installing a package, and then we install it
with a build-time hook (see `config/chroot_local-hooks/` below). If
the package is to be installed from another source than Debian Stable,
make sure to add a pinning rule (see `config/chroot_apt/preferences`
above).


## config/chroot_local-packages/

If you put a `.deb` here, it will be installed with high priority
(disregarding the rules in `config/chroot_apt/preferences`). This is
useful for testing purposes only!


## config/base_branch

This encodes which base branch (see above) the current branch is based
on (the base branches themselves are "based" on themselves). In
practice this determines which APT suite from `deb.tails.boum.org` to
use (so if `config/base_branch` contains `devel`, then the `devel` APT
suite will be used). These APT suites are the place where we upload
all our custom Debian packages.


## config/APT_overlays.d/

Each file here corresponds to an APT suite on `deb.tails.boum.org` to
be used. E.g. if we have `config/APT_overlays.d/feature-1234-example`
then the `feature-1234-example` APT suite will be used. Each branch
that is pushed to Tails' main Git repo will automatically have such a
suite created (but with illegal charactes changed to `-`, so
`feature/1234-example` becomes `feature-1234-example`).

This is useful for importing specific package versions in between
Tails releases, and gives us very exact control of which branches gets
which packages.


## config/APT_snapshots.d/

The APT repositories used to install packages during the build process
are snapshotted several times per day. The files in here simply encode
which snapshot to use for each APT repository. In general, the `devel`
branch always uses the latest snapshots, while all other branches more
or less use the snapshot from the last feature freeze (when we prepare
the release candidate for the last Tails major release). This way only
`devel` is a bit crazy, and the build result depends on what happens
e.g. in Debian's APT repository from day to day. Other branches remain
pretty much the same until these snapshots are bumped, or something
changes in `deb.tails.boum.org` (but then you should just merge your
base branch, and all should be good again).

For detailed information see our
[[documentation about APT repositories|contribute/APT_repository]].

## config/binary_*

These files are about what will happen outside of Tails filesystem, on
the ISO9660 filesystem of the resulting `.iso` image.


## config/chroot_local-includes/

These files and directories will be copied into the Tails file system,
overwriting existing file. This is the main way to include e.g. static
configurations, custom scripts, and similar things not handled by
Debian packages.


## config/chroot_local-patches/

These patches will be applied on `/` of the Tails filesystem right
after `config/chroot_local-includes/` is copied in. Here we patch
various configuration files and similar installed by Debian packages,
but where we still want to keep any changes made upstream. Remember,
if we use `config/chroot_local-includes/` files are *overwritten*, so
any such upstream changes are lost. With a patch we'll get them as
well as our desired change (and we get build failures as a
"notification" when the upstream has changed in a conflicting way,
which is nice).


## config/chroot_local-hooks/

These scripts will run right after the patches in
`config/chroot_local-patches/` are applied. Here we can pretty much do
anything we want. We use it to reconfigure various things, install
packages that require extra magic, programatically generating various
files (images, configurations, even some scripts), cleaning up
unneeded files etc.


## config/chroot_local-includes/lib/live/config/

These scripts will be run early during Tails' boot process, in lexical
order. Quite a few of them are installed by the `live-config` package,
but we have some custom ones in there as well. Note that
`0030-user-setup` is when the Live user (`amnesia`) is created, so
prior to that any reference to it won't work (e.g. in the build-hooks
in `config/chroot_local-hooks/`).


## config/chroot_local-includes/etc/skel/

This is the seed for the Live user's (`amnesia` for now) home
directory. Put static application configuration files ("dot files" and
"dot dirs") here!


## config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/tails/

A directory where we dump Tails-specific files with no obvious place
to live. Generally these are files needed during build (and then we
clean them up with a build hook) or during Tails operation (e.g. by
some script).


## config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/

This is where we put most of the custom scripts shipped in Tails. Some
honorable mentions are:

* `config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/sbin/` for scripts used by
  root only.
* `config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/bin/` for scripts used by
  non-root users (and root too).
* `config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/` for scripts that we
  don't want to expose to the user at all times (it's not in the
  `$PATH`).
* `config/chroot_local-includes/usr/local/lib/tails-shell-library/`
  for "libraries" often included in the above scripts.


# Overview of the build process

The order of how things are applied matters greatly. In terms of the
files and directories you have learned about above, this is how Tails
is built, in order:

1. A minimal Debian system is `debootstrap`:ed.
2. APT is set up according to `config/chroot_sources/` and
   `config/chroot_apt/preferences` (and `config/APT_overlays.d/` and
   `config/APT_snapshots.d/`).
3. Packages listed in
   `config/chroot_local-packageslists/tails-common.list` are
   installed.
4. Packages stored in `config/chroot_local-packages/` are installed.
5. Everyting in `config/chroot_local-includes/` is copied to `/`,
   overwriting existing files.
6. All patches in `config/chroot_local-patches/` are applied on `/`.
7. All build-time hooks in `config/chroot_local-hooks/` are run.
8. Now the Tails filesystem is done!
9. The ISO9660 filesystem used in the resulting `.iso` image is
   created according to `config/binary_*`.

# Building Tails

Just follow the "Using Vagrant" section in our
[[contribute/build#vagrant]] instruction. Copy-pasting the shell
commands should be enough. Then it's as simple as:

    rake build

although you may want to look through the build options you can supply
via the `TAILS_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable.

Happy hacking!
