[[!meta title="Removing metadata using mat2"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

What is metadata?
=================

Metadata is "data about data" or "information about information" that is embedded
in computer files, usually automatically. Metadata is used to describe,
identify, categorize, and sort files.

However, metadata can also be used to deanonymize users and expose
private information.

Examples of metadata include:

- In image files:
  - the location where a photo was taken
  - the date and time a photo was taken
  - the model and serial number of the camera used to take a photo
- In text document files:
  - the author of the document
  - changes to the document

To learn more about how metadata can be used to identify and reveal personal information, see
[Behind the Data: Investigating metadata](https://exposingtheinvisible.org/en/guides/behind-the-data-metadata-investigations/).

Removing metadata from files
==========================

Tails includes
<a href="https://0xacab.org/jvoisin/mat2"><span class="application">mat2</span></a>
so you can remove metadata from files before you publish or share them.

<span class="application">mat2</span> works on many file formats, including:

- image files, such as .jpeg, .png, and .gif
- <span class="application">LibreOffice</span> files, such as .odt and .ods
- <span class="application">Microsoft Office</span> documents, such as .docx, .xlsx, and .pptx
- audio files, such as .mp3, .flac, and .ogg
- video files, such as .mp4 and .avi
- archive files, such as .zip and .tar

To use <span class="application">mat2</span> to remove metadata from your
files:

1. Open the <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

1. Navigate to the folder containing the files that you want to remove
   metadata from.

1. Select the files that you want to remove metadata from.

1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the files and choose
   <span class="guimenuitem">Remove metadata</span>.

<div class="caution">

<p>It is impossible to reliably find and remove all metadata in complex file
formats. For example, <i>Microsoft Office</i> documents can contain embedded images,
audio, and other files containing their own metadata that <i>mat2</i> cannot
remove.</p>

<p>You should run <i>mat2</i> on any files before you embed them into another
document.</p>

<p>Also, you should save files in simpler formats whenever possible.
For example, instead of saving a text document as a .docx file,
you can save the document as a plain .txt file.</p>

</div>
