[[!meta title="Erasing Tails from a USB stick, for Linux"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/first_steps/resetting_a_usb_stick.intro" raw="yes"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

Using <span class="application">GNOME Disk Utility</span>
=========================================================

<div class="caution">
<strong>You might overwrite any hard drive on the computer.</strong> If at some
point you are not sure about which device to choose, stop proceeding.
</div>

1.  Make sure that the USB stick that you want to reset is unplugged.

2.  Choose
    <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guimenuitem">Disk Utility</span>
    </span>
    to start <span class="application">GNOME Disk Utility</span>.

    A list of all the storage devices on the computer appears in the left pane
    of the window.

3.  Plug the USB stick that you want to reset.

    A new device appears in the list of storage devices in the left pane of the
    window. This new device corresponds to the USB stick that you plugged in.
    Click on it.

4.  In the right pane of the window, verify that the device correspond to the USB
    stick that you want to reset, its brand, its size, etc.

5.  To reset the device, click on the <span class="button">Format the drive</span> button.

6.  In the popup window, choose <span class="guilabel">Master Boot Record</span>
    from the <span class="guilabel">Scheme</span> drop-down list. Then click on
    the <span class="button">Format</span> button.

7.  In the confirmation dialog, click on the <span class="button">Format</span>
    button to confirm.

8.  To make sure that all the changes are written to the USB stick, click on the
    <span class="button">Safe Removal</span> button in the right pane.

Resetting a Tails USB stick from itself
=======================================

If Tails is your only Linux system, you can generally reset a Tails USB stick
directly from that USB stick running Tails.

1.  When starting Tails, add the <span class="command">toram</span> boot
    parameter.

    To do so, when the boot menu appears, press <span class="key">Tab</span>. A
    list of boot options appears at the bottom of the screen. Press <span
    class="key">Space</span>, and type <span class="command">toram</span>. Then
    press <span class="key">Enter</span> to start Tails.

    <!--
    FIXME: link to a general doc about the boot menu
    -->

2.  If Tails starts as usual, follow the instructions for [[resetting a USB stick
    using <span class="application">Disk
    Utility</span>|resetting_a_usb_stick#index2h1]].

    **If the system fails to start**, that means that the computer does not have
    enough memory for this operation mode. Try with another computer, or find
    another Linux system, such as another Tails USB stick, to do the reset from.
