{# Jinja2 template used by bin/generate-call-for-testing -#}
[[!meta title="Call for testing: {{version}}"]]
[[!meta date="{{date}}"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

Tails {{final_version}}, scheduled for {{final_date}}, will FIXME

You can help Tails by testing the release candidate for Tails {{final_version}} now.

[[!toc levels=1]]

FIXME: major changes go here

# Changelog

For more details about what has changed in Tails {{version}}, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/{{tag}}/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

* FIXME: known issues specific to this beta/RC go here

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails {{version}}?

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

# Get Tails {{version}}

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2 or later to {{version}}.

  To do an automatic upgrade to Tails {{version}}:

  1. Start Tails 4.2 or later and
     [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].
  
  1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:
  
         echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
              tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper
  
     Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
     for amnesia".
  
  1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
     **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
     to verify that you are running Tails {{version}}.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To download {{version}}

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-{{version}}/tails-amd64-{{version}}.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-{{version}}.img.sig]])

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-{{version}}/tails-amd64-{{version}}.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-{{version}}.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-{{version}}.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-{{version}}.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux/usb]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

Tails {{final_version}} is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for {{final_date}}.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r={{tag}}">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
