[[!meta title="Partners"]]

Welcome, we're glad to see you interested in becoming a partner!
It's thanks to our partners' substantial support that we are able to maintain
and improve Tails.

Become a partner
================

To be listed as a partner on our [[partner page|partners]], at least one of the
criteria below must be met. A partner provides either:

* A one-time donation
* A recurring donation (for example yearly)
* A grant or funding for [[some objectives on our roadmap|contribute/roadmap]]
* An in-kind donation (hardware, equipment, travel sponsorship, etc.)

<a id="benefits"></a>

Benefits for partners
=====================

<!-- Keep this info in sync with fundraising.git:partners_donations/partners_first_email.mdwn.

     start -->

* Your logo will appear in the top section of our partners page:
  https://tails.boum.org/partners.

  You can decide to be added as soon as we receive your donation or
  at the beginning of the following year, if you prefer.

  Partners from previous years will still be listed but less visible.

  If possible, please send us your logo as file, minimum 85 pixels in
  height, varying width, 72dpi, JPG or PNG.

* Your homepage will be linked from our partners page during the year of
  your donation. Our website is very well ranked by search engines and
  having your site linked from ours is beneficial for SEO.

  Our partners page is linked to from our homepage and donation pages.

* You may advertise your donation to Tails on your website as well as on
  social media.

* You can receive up to 5 Tails T-shirts. We do not sell these T-shirts,
  they are only given out to partners and individual donors. If you want
  T-shirts, tell us which sizes:

  - Fit (women): S, M, and L
  - Straight (men): S, M, L, XL, and 2XL.

Your donation might be tax-deductible
=====================================

We have two non-profit fiscal sponsors:

* The Center for Cultivation of Technology, a gGmbH in Germany.
* RiseupLabs, a 501(c)(3) non-profit in the USA.

Please verify with your local fiscal administration which of them
would make your donation tax-deducible.

<!-- /end of syncable information -->

Contact
=======

For detailed information please get in touch with us at <tails-fundraising@boum.org>.
