#Can a flash drive be securely erased with a "full format" using TrueCrypt?

As far as I understand, the problems with secure deletion on flash/SSD are mainly wear-leveling, burn-in, and making sure the reader supports the card size. I'm not sure if there are also issues with drive caching and partition alignment. 

##Reader must support the size of the flash card

Your reader must support the size of your flash card. If the card is too big the drive may seem to work unless it fills up and gives an error when trying to access the end of the card.

##Possible problems with partition alignment?

Before you destroy the partition formatting or the partition table, it may be necessary to make a note of how the drive was partitioned and formatted, when you bought it, to ensure that you can recreate the proper partition alignment. I don't understand this. It seems to be more of an issue with "solid state drives" not USB flash drives/cards.

You may need the cluster size of the formatting to make sure you create the same cluster size after erasing/encrypting the partition.

If the flash drive has a partition table (usually they do appear in parted or linux fdisk) and you will be destroying the partition table by overwriting the entire device, you may need the starting and ending sector of the partions so that you can recreate them the same way after you are finished overwriting the device. 

##Selecting to encrypt/erase partitions or entire drives

Using Linux and TrueCrypt, you encrypt the *partition* and not the *entire device*, by selecting something like "/dev/sdb1" or "/dev/sdb2". Select something like "/dev/sdb" to encrypt the entire device.

##Erasing a partition

If you are only concerned about data that is on the partition(s), it seems like all you need to do is encrypt the drive with something that overwrites every bit with "random" data. Truecrypt containers/partitions are entirely "random" so long as you do not "quick format" when you create the container, you use a long "random" passphrase (of course you don't need to remember it), and to be safe I would unmount the drive after each encryption to ensure that it is finished writing and nothing has been cached (probably unnecessary). 

Encrypt the device a few times and maybe leave the last encryption to burn in for a while before zeroing or formating unencrypted. Using the encrypted device seems to be safest way to ensure that the overwritten data will not be recoverable because the new encryption will have the longest time to burn over the old data. If this is inconvenient, filling the device with large files should reduce the amount of slack space where old data won't be overwritten again.

If you fill the drive with files that are of sizes which are divisible by your cluster size, will they neatly fit together without having any slack space?

What about other "slack" space in the filesystem? 

##Erasing an entire device

If you want to make sure you destoy data that could exist in the free space outside the current partition, you will need to overwrite the entire device. This seems more likely to mess up the drive's partition alignment but I don't know. The procedure is the same as erasing a partition, except for what is noted in the section "Selecting to encrypt/erase partitions or entire drives".

##Did I mention that I don't know what I'm talking about?

This looks like a guide but I'm really putting this out there for more knowledgable people to comment on.
