[[!meta title="Tails donation campaign for 2019 begins today"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 12 Oct 2018 14:36:53 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails annual donation campaign begins today.

Every day, Tails helps more than twenty thousand people to safely use
their computers online and offline.

Tails is available for free because we believe that nobody should have
to pay to be protected from surveillance and censorship.

Tails is free software because if our source code was closed, there
would be no way of actually verifying that our software is trustworthy.

Tails exists in an internet environment where relying on advertisement
and marketing is the most rewarded economical strategy. But Tails reason
to exist is also to be an efficient tool against targeted advertisement,
and we obviously do not want to rely on these sources of revenue.

Tails user base is constantly growing and so is our responsibility to
provide the safest tool possible. In 2019, we want Tails to be easier to
install, use, and shipped with more and better security tools.

Since 2014, our yearly expenses are on average of FIXME. This is really
a small figure given the work done, and many of us still do a lot of
work for free in addition to paid hours.

Last year, our total budget was of FIXME€/$, coming from:

- People like you
- FIXME: Private companies like Mozilla or DuckDuckGo
- FIXME: Foundations and NGOs like Hivos and Access Now
- FIXME: Entities related to the US government like the Open Technology
Fund (OTF) or the National Democratic Institute (NDI)

[pie chart]

We are very well aware of the complaints that many software projects
that are meant to fight surveillance, like Tor and Tails, get funding
from entities related to the US government or private companies. We
share this concern and we will never be totally at ease with our
accountability and sustainability so long as the development pace of our
project will depend on these grants.

This is why we want to emphasize here the importance of being sustained
by our users, and our independence protected by their donations.

From [[anonymized statistics|support/faq#boot_statistics]] compiled on
our website we know that Tails is used by more than FIXME people every
day. If each of them gave FIXME€/$, the price of a small USB stick, our
budget for the whole year would be raised by the end of one day.

But we know that many of [[our most needing
users|news/who_are_you_helping]] can't donate, because they would get in
trouble for giving to an anti-surveillance tool like Tails, or simply
because they don't have the money.

During last year donation campaign, we received FIXME individual
donations for a total amount of FIXME$/€. This year, we aim for FIXME$/€
and we would also like to have a larger number of donators. So, if you
can, please take a minute to [[donate to Tails today|donate?r=2018]].
