[[!meta title="Launching today our donation campaign for 2020"]]
[[!meta date=""]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The mission of Tails is to empower people worldwide with an operating
system that protects from surveillance and censorship.

We build this liberating technology to put people in control of their digital lives,
constantly having in our mind that the most vulnerable and oppressed people are also the most in need of
privacy and security:

- Journalists and whistleblowers: they use Tails to denounce the wrongdoings
  of governments and corporations.
- Activists: they use Tails to dodge surveillance and organize their
  struggles for emancipatory social change.
- Human-rights defenders: they use Tails to avoid censorship, document and report
  human-rights violations.
- Domestic violence survivors: they use Tails to escape surveillance in
  their own homes.
- Privacy-concerned citizens also use Tails to avoid online tracking.

And we distribute Tails for free because none of them, and nobody else, should have to pay to be safe
while using computers.

However, Tails needs funds to keep up with the fight and we know that people
who need Tails the most, often cannot donate: because they would get in
trouble for giving to an anti-surveillance tool, and sometimes because they simply
don't have the money.


Why supporting Tails is more important than ever
================================================

The [2019 World Press Freedom
Index](https://rsf.org/en/2019-world-press-freedom-index-cycle-fear) compiled
by Reporters Without Borders (RSF) shows how hatred of journalists has
degenerated into violence, contributing to an increase in fear. The number of
countries regarded as safe, where journalists can work in complete security,
continues to decline, while authoritarian regimes continue to tighten their
grip on the media.

According to the [2019 Report by United Nations' Special Rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of the Right to Freedom of Opinion and Expression David
Kaye](https://daccess-ods.un.org/access.nsf/Get?Open&DS=A/HRC/41/35&Lang=E),
surveillance of individuals – often journalists, activists, opposition figures,
critics and others exercising their right to freedom of expression – thrives
because of weak controls on exports and transfers of surveillance technology to
repressive governments. This surveillance is known to lead to arbitrary
detention, sometimes to torture and possibly to extrajudicial killings.

These technologies include targeted malware, online interception of network
communications, and deep packet inspection; all technologies that Tails is recognized to be one
of the best tool to protect from while reducing the risk of dangerous mistakes.

A legal framework to regulate this surveillance industry, as recommended by
David Kaye, might be useful for the future. But digital freedom tools like
Tails are more needed than ever right now, in an act of empowerment and
self-defense.

You are our best guarantee
==========================

We often hear complaints about software projects that are meant to fight
surveillance, like Tor and Tails, getting funds from the US government. We
share this concern and we will never be at ease as long as the well-being of
our project depends on such funding.

This is why it's so important to be sustained by users like you: our
independence depends on you.

And we are extremely proud that, last year, our primary source of funding has been donations from passionate people like you. Let's keep it that way!

In 2017&ndash;2019, our money came from:

<figure>
  <!-- Adapted from https://medium.com/@heyoka/scratch-made-svg-donut-pie-charts-in-html5-2c587e935d72 -->
  <div class="figure-content">
    <svg width="75%" height="75%" viewBox="0 0 64 64">
      <!-- stroke-dashoffset = 100 - sum(lengths of preceding segments) + offset of 1st segment -->
      <circle cx="32" cy="32" r="15.91549430918954" fill="transparent" stroke="#5da5da" stroke-width="32" stroke-dasharray="36 64" stroke-dashoffset="25" aria-labelledby=""></circle>
      <circle cx="32" cy="32" r="15.91549430918954" fill="transparent" stroke="#faa43a" stroke-width="32" stroke-dasharray="30 70" stroke-dashoffset="89" aria-labelledby=""></circle>
      <circle cx="32" cy="32" r="15.91549430918954" fill="transparent" stroke="#60bd68" stroke-width="32" stroke-dasharray="25 75" stroke-dashoffset="59" aria-labelledby=""></circle>
      <circle cx="32" cy="32" r="15.91549430918954" fill="transparent" stroke="#f17cb0" stroke-width="32" stroke-dasharray="9 91" stroke-dashoffset="34" aria-labelledby=""></circle>
    </svg>
  </div>

  <figcaption class="figure-key">
    <ul class="figure-key-list">
      <li id="key-blue"><div class="key-dot"></div><div class="key-label">Passionate people like you</div><div class="key-percent">(36%)</div></li>
      <li id="key-orange"><div class="key-dot"></div><div class="key-label">Foundations & NGOs</div><div class="key-percent">(30%)</div><br/>like Mozilla or the Handshare Foundation</li>
      <li id="key-green"><div class="key-dot"></div><div class="key-label">Entities related to the US government</div><div class="key-percent">(25%)</div><br/>like the Open Technology Fund or the ISC Project</li>
      <li id="key-pink"><div class="key-dot"></div><div class="key-label">Private companies</div><div class="key-percent">(9%)</div><br/>like DuckDuckGo or Lush</li>
    </ul>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

New anonymous ways to donate
============================

Because we know being able to donate anonymously is very important to some
of you, we are adding this year 3 new ways to donate anonymously to Tails.

You can send us:

- Monero:

  4B93hjotwmMQeaZ799D84XTxhqUGqqjfveUTB1GeduAKNeH47WDyn5eb8P2mtScErGbsbL5X3J6vUPAVPrw8j5pMFh6dAwY

- Zcash:

  zs1ayrt0wckfpkddxqsqv9af6n7vtuspnv3t59w7e9mvykyznmcr3h9vep8emte2lgak8d5s0q65q2

- Cash by post:

  Weber<br/>
  Merseburger Strasse 95<br/>
  04177 Leipzig<br/>
  Germany

Please take a minute to donate to Tails today!

<div class="donate-button"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=2019">Donate</a></div>
