[[!meta title="Our achievements in 2019"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 31 Oct 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

On October 7, we started our [[yearly donation
campaign|news/2019-fundraiser]]. Today, we summarize what we achieved
with your help in 2019.

If you liked our work in 2019, please take a minute to
donate and make Tails thrive in 2020!


Easier adoption by new users
============================

In 2019, we focused on fewer but critical features to make Tails easier to discover
and adopt for first time users.

- In January, we completely changed the Tails installation procedure.
  Tails is now downloaded as a *USB image*: an exact copy of the data
  as it is written to the USB stick.

  This made the installation experience better for all operating
  systems and particularly easier and much faster for less
  tech-savvy users of [[Windows|install/win/usb]] and
  [[macOS|install/mac/usb]].

- Then, we improved our documentation to help first time users with
  their Tails installation:

  - We explained better how to [[troubleshoot failing Wi-Fi|install/win/usb#wi-fi]],
    an issue unfortunately quite common, especially on Mac, and documented which Wi-Fi
    USB adapters work well in Tails.

  - We created a [[boot menu animation|install/win/usb#animation]] to visualize
    how to start Tails on PC and clarified related troubleshooting
    instructions.

As a consequence, more people than ever are using Tails:

- Tails is used nearly 25 000 times every day worldwide. That's 15% more than in August 2018.

- The percentage of people using Tails on Mac more than doubled
  since January 2019.

To continue making Tails more accessible to users globally,
we built a [[translation platform|https://translate.tails.boum.org/]] for our website.
Since then, people started translations in Arabic, Catalan,
Traditional and Simplified Chinese, Polish, Russian, Serbian, and Turkish.

We also improved a lot the usability of *Tails Greeter* for non-English
users in [[Tails 4.0|version_4.0#greeter]].


Maintenance work
================

2019 was also a year of heavy maintenance work, as always. Keeping alive a
tool like Tails consists mostly of many tasks that are not very exciting:
publishing new releases every 6 weeks, updating Tails and our infrastructure
to new versions of Debian and other software that we use, fixing small issues as
they are reported to us, and implementing the many small improvements that make Tails easier to
use.

- In October, we released [[Tails 4.0|version_4.0]], which is the first version
  of Tails based on Debian 10 (Buster).

  Tails 4.0 was our most important release in years. Tails 4.0 adds
  KeePassXC, OnionShare 1.3.2, fixes Electrum, updates to Debian 10 and
  GNOME 3.30, starts faster and uses less memory.

- We released 13 new versions of Tails to deliver improvements and
  security fixes as soon as possible.

- We published more emergency releases than ever before:
  5 emergency releases to fix 5 critical security vulnerabilities in
  Firefox and Tor Browser and always keep Tails as secure as possible.

- We removed less popular software and localization packages, which you
  can now install yourself using the [[Additional
  Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]] feature. Optimizations
  like these made the USB image of Tails 4.0 47 MB smaller than Tails 3.6, which
  was the bigger release ever.

- Tails depends on a wider ecosystem of Free Software and privacy
  tools. We continuously contribute improvements to other projects which are either
  included in Tails or used on our infrastructure. Some of these projects, that we call
  "upstream", are:

  - [Thunderbird](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=971347)
  - [GNOME](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gtk/merge_requests/263)
  - [Debian](https://tracker.debian.org/news/1062740/accepted-apparmor-2133-5-source-into-unstable/)
  - [OnionShare](https://tracker.debian.org/news/1036041/accepted-onionshare-20-1-source-all-into-unstable/)
  - [KeePassXC](https://github.com/keepassxreboot/keepassxc/pull/2593)
  - [torsocks](https://tracker.debian.org/news/1037418/accepted-torsocks-230-2-source-amd64-into-unstable/)
  - [ikiwiki](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=911356)

- We had to temper several [[!wikipedia Denial-of-service_attack
  desc="distributed denial-of-service (DDoS)"]] attacks targeting our
  infrastructure.

- For 9 years, we have been relying on the hosting services provided by the fine people of
  boum.org. Thank you! As they were reducing their activities, we had to migrate our services. Our
  website is now self-hosted and our mailing-lists are taken care of
  by 2 experienced and trusted autonomous server projects:
  [autistici.org](https://autistici.org) and
  [puscii.nl](https://puscii.nl).



Community
=========

Over the years, Tails has been able to gather a lively community which is
growing, evolving, and deserves care.

- We published a statement of our [[mission and
  values|contribute/mission]] to help us clarify who we are, what we
  stand for, and what we want to do for our users.

- We agreed on [[user personas|contribute/personas]], fictitious but
  concrete representations of the people using Tails. We use these
  personas to keep in mind who we are working for, what are their needs,
  and what Tails should do for them.

- We attended 9 conferences and connected to Free Software and Internet
  freedom communities in 9 different countries, including FOSDEM
  (Belgium), Internet Freedom Festival (Spain), Tor Meeting (Sweden),
  OTF Summit (Taiwan), DebConf (Brazil), and MozFest (UK).

- The wider Tails community organized 10 workshops to present Tails to
  new users in North and South America, Europe, and East and South-East
  Asia.

- We answered 883 bug reports through our help desk and helped all these
  people to be safer online.

- 2 new workers joined our help desk and sysadmin teams.

All of this is made possible by donations from people like you. And because
these help us to plan our work, we particularly appreciate monthly and yearly donations,
even the smallest ones.

If you liked our work in 2019, please take a minute to donate and
make us thrive in 2020!

<div class="donate-button"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=2019-achievements">Donate</a></div>
