[[!meta title="Our achievements in 2020"]]
[[!meta date="Wed, 23 Dec 2020 18:02:12 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Despite everything, 2020 was a great year for Tails. We released major
improvements that made Tails easier to use by the people who need it the most.

If you enjoyed our work in 2020, take a minute now to
<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=at">donate and fight surveillance and censorship</a>!

From the number of automatic upgrades, we know that Tails was used 20% more in
2020 than in 2019, which is our largest increase since 2016. From March to May
only, when the lockdown measures were the strictest worldwide, Tails got used
10% more than ever before.

Today, Tails is used close to 32&#8239;000 times each day.

[[!img users.png link="no" alt=""]]

Simplified starting procedure
=============================

We added support for **Secure Boot** in April. Secure Boot doesn't really make
your computer any safer but it forced most users to edit their BIOS in
complicated and risky ways to be able to use Tails (or Linux in general).
Now you don't have to edit the BIOS anymore!

We also documented the **Shift+Restart** procedure to start Tails from Windows
8 or 10 using the **Start [[!img lib/start.png alt="" link="no"]]** menu.
Now you don't have to hammer that Boot Menu key anymore!

All this dramatically simplified our [[starting instructions for
PCs|install/win/usb#start-tails]].

[[!img install/inc/screenshots/choose_an_option.png link="no" alt=""]]

Better upgrades
===============

Because we know that upgrades are one of the most painful aspects of using
Tails, we released significant improvements to automatic upgrades in January.
We made automatic upgrades:

- Available **from all prior versions** to the latest version in a
  single upgrade.

  For example, you can upgrade from 4.10 to 4.14 directly, without
  having to first upgrade to 4.12 anymore.

- Available **endlessly between minor versions** of Tails.

  For example, you don't have to do a manual upgrade anymore after a few
  upgrades. You will only have to do a manual upgrade between major versions,
  for example to upgrade to Tails 5.0 at the end of 2021.

- Use less memory.

- Better documented, especially manual upgrades.

But also&hellip;
================

- We completely redesigned our Home page to explain better what is Tails
  and why people should use it.

  [[!img about/footprints.svg link="no" alt="" size="300x"]]

- We made it possible to save the settings of the Welcome Screen in the
  Persistent Storage: language, keyboard, and additional settings.

  [[!img news/version_4.8/welcome_screen.png link="no" alt=""]]

- We simplified the verification procedure on our download page by [[replacing
  the *Tails Verification* extension|verification_extension_deprecation]] with
  similar JavaScript code that runs directly on the page.

  People without JavaScript are also now pointed to the checksum of the
  download.

  [[!img verify.png link="no" alt=""]]

- We added support for the **hardware cryptocurrency wallets** Trezor and
  Ledger.

Under the hood
==============

Unfortunately, the biggest part of our work doesn't lead to such major
changes for our users. Tails is an endless work of updates and
maintenance: publishing a new release every 4 weeks to fix security
vulnerabilities, adapting to new versions of the underlying software,
keeping our website and development infrastructure secure and reliable,
etc.

- We published **more releases than ever**. In 2020 we released 15 new versions
  of Tails to always have your back covered!

  At the end of 2019, Firefox switched from releasing a new version every 6
  weeks to releasing a new version every 4 weeks. And so did we.

- We streamlined our release process by automating its most time-consuming
  parts. This reduced the work needed to publish a new release of Tails from 2
  full days of work to only 1 day.

  In the long run, this will help us spend more time on what really
  matters to our users and allow us to react faster to emergencies
  in case of security vulnerabilities.

- We migrated to GitLab and saw many more of you jump in and give us a hand!

Help us fight surveillance and censorship
=========================================

[[!img donate/godzilla.png link="no" alt=""]]

All our work is made possible by donations from people like you. We
particularly appreciate monthly and yearly donations, even the smallest ones.
Because they help us plan our work, they are the most valuable for the
sustainability of Tails.

If you enjoyed our work in 2020, take a minute now to donate and fight
surveillance and censorship!

<div class="cfa"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=ab">Donate</a></div>
