New features
============

- We integrated *VeraCrypt* in the desktop to allow you to work with
  encrypted files across different operating systems (Windows, Linux,
  and macOS).
  
  [[!img doc/encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt/unlock-veracrypt-volumes-with-partition.png link="no" alt=""]]

  This work was done upstream in GNOME and will be available outside of
  Tails in Debian 10 (Buster) and Ubuntu 18.10 (Cosmic Cuttlefish).

- *[[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]* allows
  you to install additional software automatically when starting Tails.

  [[!img doc/first_steps/additional_software/add-additional-software.png link="no" alt="Add vlc to your additional software? 'Install Only Once' or 'Install Every Time'"]]

  [[!img doc/first_steps/additional_software/additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

- We added a [[screen locker|doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop#screen-locker]]
  to give you some protection if you leave your
  Tails unattended, willingly or not.

  [[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/screen-locker.png alt="" link="no"]]

- We completely redesigned our [[download page|install/download]] and
  verification extension to make it easier to get and verify Tails. It
  is also now possible to verify Tails from Chrome.

Adoption
========

- Tails was used around 22 000 times a day.

- We did more usability work than ever before. Every new feature was
  tested with actual users to make sure Tails becomes easier to use.

- We answered 1123 bug reports through our help desk and helped that
  many people being a bit safer online.

Under the hood
==============

- We released 11 new versions of Tails to continue offering improvements
  and security fixes as soon as possible, including 4 emergency
  releases. This year we've faced critical security issues like Spectre,
  Meltdown, EFAIL, and issues in Firefox and are working hard to always
  have your back covered!

- We made the build of Tails completely
  [[reproducible|news/reproducible_Tails]], which brings even more trust
  in the ISO images that we are distributing, a faster release process,
  and slightly smaller upgrades:

- We greatly diversified our sources of income. Thanks to all of you,
  the share of donations that we got from individuals increased from 17%
  to 34%. This made our organization more robust and independent.

Community
=========

- We published a [[social contract|news/social_contract]] to clarify the
  social commitments that we stand by as Tails contributors:

- We attended 12 conferences and connected to free software and Internet
  freedom communities in 8 different countries, including Chaos Computer
  Congress (Germany), FOSDEM (Belgium), Internet Freedom Festival
  (Spain), Tor Meeting (Italy and Mexico), Debian Conference (Taiwan),
  and CryptoRave (Brazil).

- We grew our pool of regular contractors with 4 new workers, mostly to
  work on our core code and infrastructure. These include several very
  skilled Debian developers.
