[[!meta title="Closing tails-support@boum.org"]]
[[!meta date="Thu Jan 19 12:34:56 2017"]]

Together with the people doing user support, people from tails@boum.org, and
other contributors, we decided to close down tails-support@boum.org, our public
mailing list for user support.

We [created tails-support@boum.org](https://tails.boum.org/news/tails-support/)
in 2013 after closing the forum we had on this website.

The idea behind having a public space for user support was to:

- Reduce the amount of work for the help desk behind
  [[tails-support-private@boum.org|about/contact#tails-support-private]]
  (which is encrypted and also receives [[*WhisperBack*
  reports|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]).

  This is not really working as tails-support-private@boum.org still
  has 12 times more traffic than tails-support@boum.org.

- Build a community of people doing user support outside of people
  working for the help desk and other core contributors.

  This is not really working either as most of the threads are still
  answered by people working on the help desk or other core
  contributors. Here are some statistic, over the last 12 months, on
  who first answered threads (spam excluded):

  - `core developers      59   36%`
  - `nobody               53   32%`
  - `help desk            37   22%`
  - `other contributors   16   10%`
  - `Total               165`

- Build a public database of problems and answers so that both people
  asking questions and people answering them could reuse previous
  answers.

  This is not really working either as the archive of the mailing list
  are very hard to search and reuse and it's easier to point people to
  the documentation, known issues, or FAQ.

Having a public mailing list also makes it:

- Complicated to handle properly the email headers and making sure
  that both the list and the sender receive the answer.

- Tricky to ask for more technical information about the problem, such
  as logs, as they are harder for the person reporting the error to
  share with us and also raises privacy concerns.

- Duplicate work between tails-support-private@boum.org and
  tails-support@boum.org as people often write to both.

The downside that we could identify by closing tails-support@boum.org is that
it was a good place for developers to have some feedback on the recurrent
problems faced by users. We will try to solve this while working on a [request
tracker for our help desk](https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/RT_for_help_desk/).

See you on
[[tails-support-private@boum.org|about/contact#tails-support-private]]!
