[[!meta title="Results of the 2020 donation campaign"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 09 Mar 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Thank you so much, on behalf of our entire team, to everyone who
donated during our end-of-year campaign!

We raised $132&#8239;750 from 2&#8239;799 donors. That's an amazing 40%
more than last year and 30% of our yearly budget. These excellent
numbers mean more sustainability for Tails and ultimately better tools
for you and all our users.

Here is what we did since October with your help:

- From the number of automatic upgrades, we know that Tails was used 20%
  more in 2020 than in 2019. It's our biggest increase since 2016.

- **We designed and tested usability improvements to the Persistent
  Storage and the connection to Tor.**

  We know from previous surveys and usability research that these are 2
  critical aspects to improve the usability of Tails, especially for
  less technical users and people experiencing heavy online censorship,
  for example in Asia.

  Your donations will help us implement as many of these improvements as
  possible during 2021. You can already have a look at the new designs
  in our blueprints on the [[!tails_blueprint
  Persistent-Storage-redesign desc="Persistent Storage"]] and the
  [[!tails_blueprint network_connection desc="connection to Tor"]].

  We always test the usability of major features with users before
  releasing them. It was particularly exciting this time because we
  tested our design remotely using <a
  href="https://simplysecure.org/blog/formative-testing">paper
  prototyping</a> with people in Greece, Mexico, Italy, Uganda, Germany,
  Ireland, and Malaysia!

- **We simplified the verification procedure on our download page** by
  [[replacing the *Tails Verification*
  extension|verification_extension_deprecation]] with similar JavaScript
  code that runs [[directly on the download page|install/download]].

  This simple usability improvement had a huge impact and 60% more
  downloads are verified and secure now than with the verification
  extension.

- **We automated the most time-consuming parts of our release process.**

  We estimate that we divided roughly by 2 the amount of time, work, and
  stress needed for us to publish a new version of Tails.

  For you, this means a quicker response time in case of important
  security vulnerability and more time available for us to work on new
  features and improvements.

- **We hired a new core developer, boyska.**

  boyska has very strong experience in the technical aspects of
  operating systems and software development, and also in the social
  implications of technology, Free Software, and privacy.

  boyska will be key to bringing more improvements to Tails more
  quickly.

Thanks again for supporting Tails!
