[[!meta title="Help Tails: Mac and PC UEFI hardware needed"]]
[[!meta date="Sat, 12 Oct 2013 09:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

For the moment, Tails has very limited support for Mac.
Also, Tails lacks UEFI support, so quite a few recent PC's refuse to
boot from a Tails USB stick.

We will be working on this in the next few months. However, our testing
and development possibilities are limited: we do not own the right
hardware yet.

[[!toc levels=2]]

What we need
============

If you can afford it, please consider donating known-working hardware
of the kind described below.

Alternatively, you may want to consider [[donating through
Bitcoin|donate]] and dropping us an email to earmark
your donation for hardware purchase.

Else, there are [[many other ways|contribute]] you can contribute to
Tails :)

MacBook Pro or MacBook Air (2010 or later)
------------------------------------------

* EFI 2.6 firmware or later: you can check this on the [Apple firmware
  updates page](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1237)
* preferably with embedded DVD reader
* preferably 13"

Recent PC laptops
-----------------

* must support booting Debian off UEFI: send us the exact brand and
  model of the hardware you could donate, and we will happily check
  this for you
* well supported by Debian Wheezy
* preferably 13" or less

When and how many
-----------------

We need this hardware by the end of November but the sooner,
the better.

We could definitely make use of several such computers. One item of
each category is enough for initial development, but it would be much
better not to rely on a single person for maintaining support of this
kind of hardware.

How to donate
=============

Please send offers to <tails@boum.org>.

Thanks in advance!
