[[!meta date="Sun Oct 15 10:00:00 2017"]]
[[!meta title="Many hands make Tails!"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Today we are asking you to give us a hand to fund our work in 2018.

Tails protects thousands of people everyday to be safe online and we
give out Tails for free because we believe that nobody should have to
pay to be protected from surveillance and censorship.

We've all become used to get content and tools on the Internet without
paying for them. But you know that this is teh result of users having
become the new product. While sharing images and messages online, users
generate page and advertisement views - which in turn generate income,
reaching up to several billions of Dollars for some companies.

At Tails we will never sell your data, nor send you targeted
advertising. And we will never sell our project to a company. We have
made this clear in our [[Social
contract|contribute/working_together/social_contract]], which is our
public promise to our users as well as to the rest of the world, and
with it, we are affirming a commitment to our beliefs.

Being free software is a necessary requirement for our tools to be safe
and to protect you as intended. If our source code was closed, there
would be no way of actually verifying that our software is trustworthy.

Last year we've made it clear [[how much of our overall budget came from
government grants|news/why_we_need_donations]] and that, in order to
remain independent and to use our money in the best interest of our
users, we needed to be able to rely on donations. Our first donation
campaign was already a small success in that regard: your donations
covered around one third of our budget of 2017.

Since 2014 we raised on average 210.000 € per year which is a very small
budget compared to the multibillionaire companies and agencies running
the surveillance business. Many of us still do a lot of work during
their free time.

While last year's fundraising success was amazing, 2018 will arrive fast
and our user base is continously growing. During 2017 we counted 22061
boots per day on average. ([[How do we know
this?|support/faq#boot_statistics]]) **Many hands make Tails: If each of
our users gave $15, our budget for the whole year would be raised within
one day.** If we could fund Tails entirely through donations by our
users, this would make us independent from government grants.

[[!img boots_per_day.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Tails
boots per day 2013-2017"]]

But many of our users could actually get in trouble if they donated to
an anti-surveillance tool like Tails. So when donating to Tails you are
also [[giving a hand to these people|news/who_are_you_helping]] by
keeping Tails alive. Please consider setting up a yearly or monthly
donation.

Last year, around 10% of our estimated userbase made a donation. If you
want Tails to survive and be largely independent from governement
grants, please take a minute and give us a hand!

<div id="donate-button"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=why">Donate</a></div>
