[[!meta title="Have your cake and eat it, too!"]]
[[!meta date="Sun Nov 05 08:00:00 2017"]]

Reproducible Tails builds
-------------------------

We have received the Mozilla Open Source Support award in order to make Tails
ISO images build reproducibly. This project was on our roadmap for 2017 and
with the release of Tails 3.3 you will hold in your hands the world's first
reproducibly built ISO image (that we know of at least!).

From source code to binary code
-------------------------------

When we write software, we do this using programming languages which a
human can read and understand. This is called the _source code_. One can
imagine source code much like a very precise recipe. Such a recipe
describes an exact procedure: which ingredients and which amount of
ingredients do you need? How should they be mixed together at which
temperature should they be cooked or baked? The recipe will even
describe the expected outcome: how the meal should look and taste like.

When we generate our Tails ISO image, the source code is transformed into
binary code, much like when the ingredients ot the recipe are mixed together,
one obtains the meal. The amounts and ingredients of this meal cannot be
easily reverse engineered. The result of *our* cooking process is a Tails ISO
image which users download and install onto a USB stick.

Besides, we provide you, our users, with several means to verify that this ISO
image is indeed the one we want you to download, either using our Download And
Verify Extension for Firefox which does this verification automatically for you
or by using our PGP signature. Both of these verification methods simply tell
you that the ISO image is the image which we want you to download. The meal you
get is indeed the meal that you've ordered.

However, even with such sophisticated verification methods, it is still
impossible to trace back the meal to the recipe: Does the meal contain only the
ingredients it is supposed to contain? Or could an evil waiter have added
poison or modify an important ingredient? In other words, could a malicious
entity have compromised our build machines? That's what reproducible builds
help verify and protect against.

What's a reproducible build?
----------------------------

    Reproducible builds are a set of software development practices that create
    a verifiable path from human readable source code to the binary code used
    by computers. (quoted from https://reproducible-builds.org/)

In other words, with reproducible builds, each cooking process of the same
recipe is exactly repeatable.

At Tails, we have worked during several months to implement such a set of
practices. This makes it now possible to compare ISO images built by multiple
parties from the same source code and to ensure that they all result in exactly
the same ISO image.

Or again, using our cooking metaphor: Several of us will cook the meal, compare
that we all cooked the same meal and only once we're sure about that, we will
deliver it to you.

We all can thus gain confidence that no evil cook or broken oven has introduced
malicious code or failures: or we would notice it before delivering the meal.

What does this mean for you as a user?
--------------------------------------

This does not change anything in the way you download and install Tails, and
you don't have to make additional verifications. It simply helps trust that the
Tails ISO image that we distribute is indeed coming from the source code it is
meant to be made of. With reproducible Tails, any independent party could build
their own ISO image from our source code and verify that it is the same one
that we distribute.

And by the way, not only our ISO images are now reproducible, but so are our
incremental upgrades. And you are benefiting from this improvement without even
noticing :)

Thank you
---------

Besides Mozilla's Open Source Support we'd also like to thank all members of
our community who helped us test this process. Your giving us a hand is much
appreciated!

Technical implementation
------------------------

If you are interested in the technical details of our implementation, we invite
you to read our [report to the Reproducible Builds
community|/blueprint/reproducible_builds/report_to_RB_community] about how we
did it.

We've also published technical [instructions to
verify|/contribute/build/reproducible/#verify-iso] one's own
[build|/contribute/build/].

Help us make Tails even better
------------------------------

Tails is a self organized free software project. We depend on grants and
donations by individuals like you.

Care to give us a hand to make Tails bake even better cakes in the
future? Consider making a donation.
