[[!meta title="Call for testing: MAC address spoofing"]]

[[!meta date="Sun, 29 Dec 2013 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The
[[MAC address spoofing|contribute/design/MAC_address]] feature is
ready for testing. This feature prevents geographical tracking of your
network devices (and by extension, you) by randomising their
[[!wikipedia MAC addresses]].

If you have security auditing skills you are more than welcome to
review our [[design|contribute/design/MAC_address]] and
[[implementation|contribute/design/MAC_address#implementation]].

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Background

Every network device (wired, Wi-Fi/wireless, 3G/mobile) has a
[[!wikipedia MAC address]], which is a unique identifier used to
address them on the local network. Broadcasting a unique identifier in
this manner introduce a couple of potential privacy issues for Tails
users. Geographical location tracking is the main one: observing a MAC
address at a particular location and time ties the corresponding
device to the same location and time. If the real identity of the
device's owner is known, their movements can be determined. To prevent
this one can temporarily change the MAC address to something random at
each boot, which is referred to as "MAC address spoofing".

# How to download the test image

Download the latest test ISO from
[build_Tails_ISO_devel](http://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_devel/). **Keep
in mind that this is a test image.** Do not use it for anything else
than testing this feature.

To verify the download, use the `.shasum` file. It is signed with
OpenPGP key
[0xD83A438B2F916605](http://keys.indymedia.org/pks/lookup?op=get&fingerprint=on&search=0xD83A438B2F916605).

# How to use MAC spoofing in Tails

MAC spoofing is enabled by default in this test ISO. You can change
this with a
[[startup option|doc/first_steps/startup_options#greeter]]. The
(preliminary) MAC spoofing documentation tries to explain situations
where it actually may be a bad idea to keep this option
enabled. However, as this is just a test version we of course urge you
to not use it for anything serious, and if possible, to test both to
enable and disable the option.

# What to test

For any MAC spoofing-related issues you experience using this test
ISO, please include the output from the following commands when
reporting it to us (note: it requires setting an
[[doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]]):

    sudo grep spoof-mac /var/log/syslog
    sudo grep unblock-network /var/log/syslog

In particular, we would like you to pay extra attention to the
following things:

## Verify that the MAC spoofing setting is enforced

Please verify that the MAC spoofing setting you select actually is
enforced by issuing the following commands:

    . /usr/local/lib/tails-shell-library/hardware.sh
    for i in $(get_all_ethernet_nics); do
      echo "Interface $i"
      macchanger $i
    done

For each network device you'll get an entry looking something like
this:

    Interface eth0
    Permanent MAC: 12:34:56:78:90:ab (unknown)
    Current   MAC: 12:34:56:f4:fb:22 (unknown)

The "Permanent MAC" is the network device's "real", unique MAC
address; the "Current MAC" is whatever it is set to at the moment,
spoofed or not. In other words:

* if they are *different*, then MAC spoofing is *enabled*;

* if they are *the* *same*, then MAC spoofing is *disabled*.

Please report if you ever get unexpected results.

## MAC address whitelisting problems

Some wireless networks are configured to only allow connections for
devices with certain MAC addresses, called MAC address
whitelisting. MAC address spoofing will cause issues on networks like
these. Therefore Tails has a crude mechanism for detecting this, and
will show an informative notification about what to do about it.

If you have access to a wireless network that employs MAC address
whitelisting, then connect to it with MAC spoofing enabled and verify
that Tails shows a notification with the headline: "Network connection
blocked?".

Note: Tails detection mechanism for MAC address whitelisting only
works for wireless (Wi-Fi) networks.

## Network problems

Please report all network device and connection issues, e.g. if any of
your network devices do not get detected by Tails at all, if the
network connection fails, or if the network connection succeeds but
actually does not work. Also check whether you experience the same
issues using Tails 0.22.

# Known issues

## No fail-safe for hotplugged devices after logging in

In order to prevent the real MAC address from leaking when MAC
spoofing fails for some network device, Tails has a fail-safe that
simply disables the device. At the moment this only works for network
devices present before logging in with Tails Greeter; the fail-safe
does *not* work for e.g. Wi-Fi USB dongles hotplugged *after* that.
