[[!meta title="Tails user support mailing list"]]
[[!meta date="Sat, 10 Aug 2013 10:42:51 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

After we closed off our forum in June, the Tails community was left
without a public user support channel apart from IRC.

Introducing tails-support@boum.org
==================================

To compensate this loss, we decided to create a new public mailing list
for user support.

This list is **the right place** for:

  - **User support**: solving doubts about how to use Tails, security
    implications of Tails, etc.
  - **Community interaction**: information and tricks about ways of
    using Tails that are not officially documented but might be of
    interest to others.
  - **Small issues**: pointing out small things that we needed to fix
    and do not require a complete bug report.  That's fine and we
    appreciate it.

This list is **the wrong place** for:

  - **Bug reports**: see the [[bug reporting
    documentation|/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]] instead.
  - **Feature requests**: those should be done on the development
    mailing list: [[tails-dev@boum.org|about/contact#tails-dev]].
  - **Computer security essays and conspiranoia** not directly related
    to Tails.

Some reasons behind this decision
=================================

Since 2012, we worked on replacing the old forum with a question and
answer application. We hoped we could have a shared application with The
Tor Project that was heading in the same direction. For many reasons
this did not happen.

To solve this we decided to:

- Setup a support mailing list as a new public channel for user support
  with the help of the Tails community.
- Gather frequently asked questions from the forum and the list on our
  website.
- On the long-run, have Askbot into Debian and improve it with the
  features we need.

See the corresponding ticket: [[!tails_ticket 5984]].


