[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.1~beta1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 30 May 2014 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The first beta for the upcoming version 1.1 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.1~beta1?
============================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

2. Download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 1.1~beta1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.1~beta1.iso.sig">Tails 1.1~beta1 signature</a>

   Note that there is no automatic upgrade targetting this release!

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

What's new since 1.0?
=====================

* Rebase on Debian 7 (Wheezy):
  - Upgrade literally thousands of packages.
  - Install LibreOffice instead of OpenOffice.
  - Fix write access to boot medium via udisks ([[!tails_ticket 6172]]).

* Security fixes
  - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.4.22.

* Major new features
  - Replace the Windows XP camouflage with an experimental Windows 8
    one.
  - UEFI boot support. This allows you to boot Tails from USB sticks
    on recent hardware, and especially on Mac. It enables you to use
    great features such as [[doc/first_steps/persistence]] and
    [[doc/first_steps/automatic upgrades]]. If you experience
    problems, please have a look at the
    [[known issues for UEFI support|blueprint/UEFI/syslinux#known_issues]].
  - Install Linux 3.14 from Debian unstable for improved hardware support.
  - Improve integration when run inside VirtualBox. This enables, for
    instance, more screen resolutions, host-guest file and
    clipboard sharing. Unfortunately, full functionality is only
    available when using the 32-bit kernel.

* Minor improvements
  - Install seahorse-nautilus, replacing seahorse-plugins (Closes
    [[!tails_ticket 5516]]).
  - Install the BookletImposer PDF imposition toolkit.
  - Install GtkHash and its Nautilus interface (Closes [[!tails_ticket 6763]]).
  - Install the hledger accounting program.
  - Tails Greeter's help window now adapts to the screen resolution.
  - Whisperback now sanitizes attached logs better with respect to DMI
    data, IPv6 addresses, and serial numbers (Closes
    [[!tails_ticket 6797]], [[!tails_ticket 6798]],
    [[!tails_ticket 6804]]).
  - Integrate the new logo in Tails Installer (Closes
    [[!tails_ticket 7095]])

See the <a href="https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=1.1-beta1">online
Changelog</a> for technical details.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 1.1~beta1
=========================

* Persistence may be disabled after upgrading to 1.1~beta1
  ([[!tails_ticket 7343]]). If this happens, get the content of
  `persistence.conf.insecure_disabled` into `persistence.conf`,
  using a text editor running as root.

* Emergency shutdown isn't triggered when removing the boot media or
  pressing the power button *before* logging in with Tails Greeter
  ([[!tails_ticket 7333]], [[!tails_ticket 7335]]).
  
* Pressing the power button *after* logging in with Tails Greeter
  shows GNOME's shutdown dialog instead of triggering emergency
  shutdown ([[!tails_ticket 7334]]).

* Internal links crash <span class="application">Yelp</a> when
  browsing the bundled Tails documentation ([[!tails_ticket 7285]]).

* Some GNOME notifications are truncated on the right
  ([[!tails_ticket 7249]]).

* The NetworkManager persistence setting is not migrated. It will have
  to be activated again manually but all settings will be lost
  ([[!tails_ticket 7338]]).
  
* The web browser's JavaScript performance may be severely degraded
  ([[!tails_ticket 7127]]). Please let us know if you are experiencing
  this to a level where it is problematic.

* The Windows 8 camouflage has some rough edges that we're working on
  ([[!tails_ticket 6342]]). We're still interested in early feedback.
  
* The Unsafe Web Browser does not start when the Windows 8 camouflage
  is activated ([[!tails_ticket 7329]]).
