[[!meta title="Call for testing: simplified installation method"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 7 Jan 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

USB images instead of ISO images
================================

We need your help to test the simplified installation methods of Tails
that we will release with 3.12 on January 29.

The method will be much simpler and faster, especially for macOS users,
but for Windows users as well. Debian and Ubuntu users won't have to
install a specific program anymore and the process will also be faster
for other Linux users.

In short, instead of downloading an ISO image (a format originally
designed for CDs) you will download a **USB image** that is already an
image of the data as written to your USB stick by *Tails Installer*. So
no need for *Tails Installer* anymore and no need for an *intermediary*
Tails nor a second USB stick when installing from Windows or macOS.

You should be able to create a persistent volume right away.

The methods for upgrading Tails will remain the same.

Testing the beta
================

Download the USB image
----------------------

<a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-feature_15292-usb-image~beta1.img">Tails beta USB image</a>

We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

Installation instructions
-------------------------

As the new instructions are not yet available on our website, please
refer to the following PDFs:

- **For Windows**

  [Download PDF instructions for Windows](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/attachments/download/2255/windows.pdf)

  At the beginning, you will have to download a program called *Etcher*:

  [Download Etcher (portable) for Windows](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher-Portable.exe)

- **For macOS**

  [Download PDF instructions for macOS](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/attachments/download/2254/macos.pdf)

  At the beginning, you will have to download a program called *Etcher*:

  [Download Etcher for macOS](https://tails.boum.org/etcher/Etcher.dmg)

- **For Linux (all distributions)**

  [Download PDF instructions for Linux](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/attachments/download/2253/linux.pdf)

Reporting about your tests
--------------------------

Note that the USB image doesn't make Tails work on more hardware but it
might work more reliably on recent hardware than the *intermediary*
Tails (currently created using *Universal USB Installer* on Windows and
`dd` on macOS).

Make sure to specify:

* The OS you installed from.

* The model of the computer you started from.

Report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

Known issues
============

None yet.
