[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.4~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 03 May 2015 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 1.4 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.4~rc1?
==========================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

1. Either try the <a href="#automatic_upgrade">automatic upgrade</a>, or
   download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="">Tails 1.4~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.4~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 1.4~rc1 signature</a>

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<div id="automatic_upgrade"></a>

How to automatically upgrade from 1.3.2?
========================================

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.3.2 to Tails 1.4~rc1.

1. Start Tails 1.3.2 from a USB stick or SD card (installed by the
   Tails Installer), and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. Once the upgrade has been installed, restart Tails and look at
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to confirm that the running system is Tails 1.4~rc1.

What's new since 1.3.2?
=======================

Changes since Tails 1.3.2 are:

  * Major new features
    - Upgrade Tor Browser to 4.5, which introduces many major new
      features for usability, security and privacy. Unfortunately its
      per-tab circuit view did not make it into Tails yet since it
      requires exposing more Tor state to the user running the Tor
      Browser than we are currently comfortable with.
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9031]])
    - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.6.7-1~d70.wheezy+1+tails2. Like in the Tor
      bundled with the Tor Browser, we patch it so that circuits used
      for SOCKSAuth streams have their lifetime increased indefinitely
      while in active use. This currently only affects the Tor Browser
      in Tails, and should improve the experience on certain websites
      that otherwise would switch language or log you out every ten
      minutes or so when Tor switches circuit.  (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 7934]])

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade Linux to 3.16.7-ckt9-3.
    - Upgrade curl to 7.26.0-1+wheezy13.
    - Upgrade dpkg to 1.16.16.
    - Upgrade gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad to 0.10.23-7.1+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade libgd2-xpm to 2.0.36~rc1~dfsg-6.1+deb7u1.
    - Upgrade openldap to 2.4.31-2.
    - Upgrade LibreOffice to 1:3.5.4+dfsg2-0+deb7u4.
    - Upgrade libruby1.9.1 to 1.9.3.194-8.1+deb7u5.
    - Upgrade libtasn1-3 to 2.13-2+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade libx11 to 2:1.5.0-1+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade libxml-libxml-perl to 2.0001+dfsg-1+deb7u1.
    - Upgrade libxml2 to 2.8.0+dfsg1-7+wheezy4.
    - Upgrade OpenJDK to 7u79-2.5.5-1~deb7u1.
    - Upgrade ppp to 2.4.5-5.1+deb7u2.

  * Bugfixes
    - Make the Windows 8 browser theme compatible with the Unsafe and
      I2P browsers. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9138]])
    - Hide Torbutton's "Tor Network Settings..." context menu entry.
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 7647]])
    - Upgrade the syslinux packages to support booting Tails on
      Chromebook C720-2800. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9044]])
    - Enable localization in Tails Upgrader. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 9190]])
    - Make sure the system clock isn't before the build date during
      early boot. Our live-config hook that imports our signing keys
      depend on that the system clock isn't before the date when the
      keys where created. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9149]])
    - Set GNOME's OpenPGP keys via desktop.gnome.crypto.pgp to prevent
      us from getting GNOME's default keyserver in addition to our
      own. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9233]])
    - Prevent Firefox from crashing when Orca is enabled: grant it
      access to assistive technologies in its Apparmor
      profile. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9261]])
    - Add Jessie APT source. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9278]])
    - Fix set_simple_config_key(). If the key already existed in the
      config file before the call, all other lines would be removed
      due to the sed option -n and p combo. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 9122]])

  * Minor improvements
    - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.19-3~deb7u+1. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 9229]])
    - Install Tor Browser's bundled Torbutton instead of custom .deb.
      As of Torbutton 1.9.1.0 everything we need has been upstreamed.
    - Install Tor Browser's bundled Tor Launcher instead of our
      in-tree version. With Tor 0.2.6.x our custom patches for the
      ClientTransportPlugin hacks are not needed any more. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 7283]])
    - Don't install msmtp and mutt. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 8727]])
    - Install fonts-linuxlibertine for improved Vietnamese support in
      LibreOffice. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 8996]])
    - Remove obsoletete #i2p-help IRC channel from the Pidgin
      configuration (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9137]])
    - Add Gedit shortcut to gpgApplet's context menu. Thanks to Ivan
      Bliminse for the patch. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 9069]]).
    - Install printer-driver-gutenprint to support more printer
      models. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 8994]]).
    - Install paperkey for off-line OpenPGP key backup. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 8957]])
    - Hide the Tor logo in Tor Launcher. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 8696]])
    - Remove useless log() instance in tails-unblock-network. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 9034]])

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 1.4~rc1

* The Windows 8 theme is slightly broken for all browsers: the default
  Firefox tab bar is used, and the search bar is
  enabled. ([[!tails_ticket 9326]])

* Tails' Tor Browser still uses Startpage as the default search engine
  instead of Disconnect.me like upstream Tor Browser, but the Unsafe
  Browser does use Disconnect.me. ([[!tails_ticket 9309]])

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
