[[!meta title="Call for testing 4.20~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 02 Jul 2021 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Contribute to Tails by testing our release candidate for Tails 4.20!

We are very excited about it and cannot wait to hear your feedback :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="new">What's new in 4.20~rc1?</h1>

Tails 4.20, scheduled for July 13, will completely change how to
connect to the Tor network from Tails. We would like as many people as
possible to test this release candidate to be able to fix as many
problems as possible before we release 4.20 to all users.

[[!img tor-connection.png link="no" alt="" width="600"]]

Over the years, we have identified many issues in how to connect to
the Tor network from Tails, thanks to your feedback. With this release
candidate, we are trying to solve the most important and pressing of
these issues:

- The lack of feeback while connecting to the Tor network.

- The option to use Tor bridges has to be turned on in the Welcome Screen and
  cannot be changed afterwards.

- The lack of default Tor bridges.

- The previous configuration screen for Tor bridges wasn't accessible to people
  who use the screen reader.

- The lack of guidance when Tails is not connected to a local network yet.

<h1>What's new since 4.19~rc1?</h1>

- The Tor Connection experience has had several improvements and
  bugfixes since 4.19~rc1.

- OnionShare was upgraded to 2.2, which features significant changes
  compared to version 1.3.2 that we used to ship.

For more details, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/4.20-rc1/debian/changelog).

<h1>Get Tails 4.20~rc1</h1>

<h2 id="upgrade">To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage</h1>

If you are running Tails 4.2 or later, you can upgrade like this:

1. Start Tails and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

1. Connect to the network and make sure Tor is connected successfully.

1. If you are running Tails 4.19~rc1 you must run this command in a
   *Terminal* or you will [[!tails_ticket desc="experience issues"
   18127]]:

       torsocks curl --silent https://tails.boum.org/isrg-root-x1-cross-signed.pem \
       | sudo tee --append /usr/local/etc/ssl/certs/tails.boum.org-CA.pem

   Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

   Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
   **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
   to verify that you are running Tails 4.20~rc1.

<h2 id="download">Download Tails 4.20~rc1</h1>

Download and install Tails 4.20~rc1 as usually.

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost. Don't install Tails 4.20~rc1
on any USB stick that already has a Persistent Storage, upgrade instead.</p>

</div>

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a><br/>
    <small>[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.img.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: 7b37ad1cb5cf8e8184676b1ac3d3a66e58dbfa70bf4c13f32f769df304eddd71</small>

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a><br/>
    <small>[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.iso.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: bc4cc51e7e0bc570ccf716aa06f151ca432ba8e78d25861d89b6d5d338aebcdc</small>

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.20~rc1.iso.torrent)

<h1 id="how-to-test">What to test in Tails 4.20~rc1?</h1>

We think Tails 4.20~rc1 is in pretty good shape, but it still has a
few rough edges. We need your help to identify as many new problems as
possible!

We are particularly interested in any issues you experience with time
syncing, especially when reported using
[[WhisperBack|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting#whisperback]]. Also, we
really appreciate testing of diverse and rare network configurations:

- When connecting to Tor without bridges fails.

- When Tails is not connected to a local network yet.

- When disconnecting from a Wi-Fi network with Internet connectivity and then
  reconnecting to a different Wi-Fi network without Internet connectivity.

- When disconnecting from Wi-Fi network that don't require Tor bridges and the
  reconnecting to different Wi-Fi network that requires Tor bridges.

- When connecting to a Tor bridge that works at first but then stops working.

- When connecting to the Internet using a proxy.

Tell us if anything is unclear, confusing, or not working as you would expect.

Please, send your feedback to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

If you are comfortable with the command line, check our [hacking
tips](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/blob/devel/config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/doc/tails/tca/HACKING.md).
They contain firewall rules that can be used to block access to the Tor network
without bridges or simulate a broken bridge.

<h1 id="known-issues">Known issues in 4.20~rc1</h1>

* Korean and Polish localization is not available. We will attempt to
  fix this in the final Tailss 4.20 release.

<h1 id="next">What's coming next?</h1>

Tails 4.20 will be the first release of a series of improvements to connect to
Tor. Next, we will work on:

- Saving Tor bridges to the Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 5461]])
- Detecting better when the computer has no supported Wi-Fi hardware ([[!tails_ticket 14534]])
- Detecting captive portals ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])
- Helping people fixing their clock when failing to connect to `obfs4` bridges ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])

The learn more about our plans, read our [[!tails_blueprint network_connection
desc="blueprint on network connection"]].

Happy testing!
