[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.0~beta1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 02 Feb 2017 11:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first beta for the upcoming version 3.0 is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.0~beta1?

Tails 3.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 9
(Stretch). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

Other changes include:

 * A 64-bit processor
   [[is now required|news/Tails_3.0_will_require_a_64-bit_processor]].

 * We redesigned Tails Greeter entirely.

   [[!img news/test_redesigned_Tails_Greeter/greeter-alpha.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Redesigned Tails Greeter alpha screenshot"]]

 * GNOME Shell is now configured to use its default black theme.

 * We fixed a lot of problems since Tails 3.0~alpha1.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.0~beta1?

**We will provide security updates for Tails 3.0~beta1**, just like we do
for stable versions of Tails.

But **keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is
not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Download and install
--------------------

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.0~beta1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.0~beta1.iso.sig]]</span>

To install 3.0~beta1, follow our usual
[[installation instructions|install]], skipping the **Download and
verify** step.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.0~beta1
=========================

* The documentation was not adjusted yet.

* The <span class="guilabel">Formats</span> settings chosen in Tails
  Greeter have no effect ([[!tails_ticket 12079]]).

* There is no <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> feature for the
  persistent volume anymore; it is not clear yet whether it will be
  re-introduced in time for Tails 3.0 final ([[!tails_ticket 12093]]).

* Some commonly used ways to start graphical applications as the
  `root` user are not supported anymore. Some workarounds are documented on
  [[!tails_ticket 12000]].

* If you use the *KeePassX* persistence feature, you need to manually
  import your passwords database ([[!tails_ticket 10956]]).

* Some command-line programs (at least *Monkeysign*, *Git*, and
  *wget*) display confusing error messages in the *Terminal*,
  although they work fine: [[!tails_ticket 11736]],
  [[!tails_ticket 12091]], [[!tails_ticket 12205]].

* *I2P* fails to start ([[!tails_ticket 12108]]). Note that the *I2P*
  feature has not been maintained in Tails since more than a year, so
  *I2P* [[!tails_ticket 11276#note-29 desc="may be removed"]] in
  Tails 2.12 if this problem is not solved soon.

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
