[[!meta title="Call for testing: VeraCrypt support in Tails"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 13 Jul 2018 20:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The beta version for the [[VeraCrypt support in Tails|/blueprint/veracrypt/]] is ready for testing.
We are very excited.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in the Beta?

We worked to integrate VeraCrypt support into the existing GNOME workflow
for unlocking encrypted volumes. As a result, most of the features already
provided for LUKS volumes are now also provided for VeraCrypt volumes.
This includes unlocking volumes via the <span class=\"application\">GNOME Disks</span>
application and integration into the places sidebar in
<span class=\"application\">GNOME Files</span>. If your file
containers have the ".hc" file extension, they will be recognized as
VeraCrypt volumes and can be easily unlocked in <span class=\"application\">GNOME Files</span>.

Additionally, we created a small application, <span class=\"application\">
VeraCrypt Mounter</span>, which makes it easier to unlock VeraCrypt volumes,
especially file containers that do not have the ".hc" extension.

# How to test the Beta?

Download and install the ISO image on a USB stick or DVD, start it and
try to unlock your existing VeraCrypt volumes.

We are interested in your feedback on bugs and usability of this feature.

- Are there any steps that are not clear?
- Did you run into technical issues?

Please send feedback emails to tails-testers@boum.org.

Get the Beta
------------

<a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-feature_14481-TCRYPT-support-beta-3.9-20180711T0737Z-628b2ff44a%2Bdevel%40df85233d79.iso">VeraCrypt support in Tails beta ISO image</a>

There is no signature available for this test ISO image.

Known issues
============

We've identified a list of known issues [[!tails_ticket 14480]] among which

 - Trying to unlock via the places sidebar using an incorrect password or keyfile results in a not very helpful error message [[!tails_ticket 15663]]
 - Unlocking via the places sidebar doesn't provide any feedback [[!tails_ticket 15664]]
 - No integration in the places sidebar of the file chooser dialog of some applications (including Tor Browser) [[!tails_ticket 15667]]


We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=veracrypt-beta">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
