[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.5~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 06 Aug 2015 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 1.5 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.5~rc1?
==========================

<div class="caution">
A <strong>critical security hole</strong> affects the version of Tor
Browser included in Tails 1.5~rc1. See the list of <a
href="#known_issues">known issues of this release</a> for
more information.
</div>

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

1. Either try the <a href="#automatic_upgrade">automatic upgrade</a>, or
   download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="">Tails 1.5~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.5~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 1.5~rc1 signature</a>

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<div id="automatic_upgrade"></a>

How to automatically upgrade from 1.4.1?
========================================

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.4.1 to Tails 1.5~rc1.

1. Start Tails 1.4.1 from a USB stick or SD card (installed by the
   Tails Installer), and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. Once the upgrade has been installed, restart Tails and look at
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to confirm that the running system is Tails 1.5~rc1.

What's new since 1.4.1?
=======================

Changes since Tails 1.4.1 are:

  * Major new features
    - Move LAN web browsing from Tor Browser to the Unsafe Browser,
      and forbid access to the LAN from the former.
    - Install a 32-bit GRUB EFI boot loader. This at least works
      on some Intel Baytrail systems.
    - Upgrade Tor Browser to 5.0a4-build3.

  * Security fixes
    - Fix panic mode on MAC spoofing failure.
    - Deny Tor Browser access to global tmp directories with AppArmor.
    - Tails Installer: don't use a predictable file name for the subprocess
      error log.
    - Pidgin AppArmor profile: disable the launchpad-integration abstraction.
    - Use aliases so that our AppArmor policy applies to
      `/lib/live/mount/overlay/` and `/lib/live/mount/rootfs/*.squashfs/` as well as
      it applies to `/`.
    - Upgrade Linux to 3.16.7-ckt11-1+deb8u2.
    - Upgrade bind9-host, dnsutils and friends to 1:9.8.4.dfsg.P1-6+nmu2+deb7u6.
    - Upgrade cups-filters to 1.0.18-2.1+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade ghostscript to 9.05~dfsg-6.3+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade libexpat1 to 2.1.0-1+deb7u2.
    - Upgrade libicu48 to 4.8.1.1-12+deb7u3.
    - Upgrade libwmf0.2-7 to 0.2.8.4-10.3+deb7u1.
    - Upgrade openjdk-7 to 7u79-2.5.6-1~deb7u1.

  * Bugfixes
    - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.6.10-1~d70.wheezy+1+tails1.

  * Minor improvements
    - Tails Installer: let the user know when it has rejected a candidate
      destination device because it is too small.
    - Tails Installer: prevent users from trying to "upgrade" a device
      that contains no Tails, or that was not installed with Tails Installer.
    - Install libotr5 and pidgin-otr 4.x from wheezy-backports. This adds
      support for the OTRv3 protocol and for multiple concurrent connections
      to the same account.
    - Skip warning dialog when starting Tor Browser while being offline,
      in case it is already running. Thanks to Austin English for the patch!
    - Install the apparmor-profiles package, but don't ship
      a bunch of AppArmor profiles we don't use, to avoid increasing
      boot time.
    - Ship a `/etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home.d/tails` snippet, instead
      of patching `/etc/apparmor.d/tunables/home`.
    - live-boot: don't mount tmpfs twice on `/live/overlay`, so that the one which
      is actually used as the read-write branch of the root filesystem's union
      mount, is visible.

There are numerous other changes that might not be apparent in the
daily operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the
changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=testing).

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 1.5~rc1

* A **critical security hole** affects the version of Tor Browser
  included in Tails 1.5~rc1.<br />
  To workaround this problem:

  1. Type `about:config` in the Tor Browser address bar
  2. Search for the `pdfjs.disabled` entry
  3. Set the `pdfjs.disabled` entry to True
  4. Repeat steps 1 to 3 for each other web browser you want to use in
     Tails 1.5~rc1: Unsafe Browser, I2P Browser.

  <div class="note">
  <ul>
    <li>This workaround is not persistent: you have to apply it again
    every time you start Tails 1.5~rc1.</li>
    <li>The version of Tor Browser included in Tails 1.4.1 is not
    affected.</li>
    <li>This security hole will be corrected in the final Tails 1.5
    release.</li>
    <li>For technical details, see [[!mfsa 2015-78]].</li>
  </ul>
  </div>
* At least **2 GB of RAM** is now needed for Tails to work smoothly.

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
