[[!meta title="Call for testing: Additional Software feature"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 14 May 2018 14:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The beta version for the [[Additional Software
feature|/blueprint/additional_software_packages/]] is ready for testing.
We are very excited.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in the Additional Software feature Beta?

We've designed and implemented a user interface to select additional software
packages and make additional software persistent.

Users are now able to decide, for each additional piece of software that they
might install in Tails once, whether it shall be installed automatically in the
future.

# How to test Tails Additional Software feature Beta?

1. Download and install the ISO image on a USB stick, start from the stick and
   configure a persistent volume. Reboot and use the package manager to install a
   package currently not in Tails (example: Mumble).
   Note that in order to carry out these steps you need to set up a root
   password in the Tails Greeter.

1. Configure if you want this package to be installed automatically on
   each boot.

1. Restart Tails and use Mumble (or another program you've just installed).

1. Imagine that over time you have installed several additional programs
   (Mumble, VLC, etc.) but don’t remember the exact list. How would you check
   your list of additional software?

1. How would you stop installing Mumble every time you start Tails?

We are interested in your feedback on bugs and usability of this feature.

- Are there any notifications that are not clear?
- Did you run into technical issues?
- Were you able to to modify the installation details as asked in the last
  question?
- Do you have ideas on packages that we should propose to Tails users for
  installation?

Please send feedback emails to tails-testers@boum.org.

Get Tails Additional Software Feature Beta
------------------------------------------

<a class="download-file" href="">Tails Additional Software feature beta ISO image</a>

There is no signature available for this test ISO image.

Known issues
============

We've identified a list of known issues [[!tails_ticket 15567]] among which

 - Additional Software gets opened multiple times [[!tails_ticket 15528]]
 - Remove and Cancel buttons don't work after escaping password prompt [[!tails_ticket 15581]]


We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.0-beta4">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
