[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.0~beta2"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 08 Mar 2017 20:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The second beta for the upcoming version 3.0 is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.0~beta2?

Tails 3.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 9
(Stretch). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

Other changes since Tails 3.0~beta1 include:

 * All changes brought by [[Tails 2.11|news/version_2.11]].

 * Upgrade to current Debian 9 (Stretch).

 * Upgrade Linux to 4.9.0-2 (version 4.9.13-1).

 * Make it possible to start graphical applications in the *Root Terminal*.

 * Improve styling of the *GNOME Shell* window list.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.0~beta2?

**We will provide security updates for Tails 3.0~beta2**, just like we do
for stable versions of Tails.

But **keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is
not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Download and install
--------------------

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.0~beta2 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.0~beta2.iso.sig]]</span>

To install 3.0~beta2, follow our usual
[[installation instructions|install]], skipping the **Download and
verify** step.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.0~beta2
=========================

* The documentation was not adjusted yet.

* The <span class="guilabel">Formats</span> settings chosen in Tails
  Greeter have no effect ([[!tails_ticket 12079]]).

* There is no <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> feature for the
  persistent volume anymore; it is not clear yet whether it will be
  re-introduced in time for Tails 3.0 final ([[!tails_ticket 12093]]).

* If you use the *KeePassX* persistence feature, you need to manually
  import your passwords database ([[!tails_ticket 10956]]).

* Some command-line programs (at least *Monkeysign*, *Git*, and
  *wget*) display confusing error messages in the *Terminal*,
  although they work fine: [[!tails_ticket 11736]],
  [[!tails_ticket 12091]], [[!tails_ticket 12205]].

* *I2P* fails to start ([[!tails_ticket 12108]]). Note that *I2P*
  will be removed in Tails 2.12 and 3.0.

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
