[[!meta title="Call for testing: 4.0~beta2"]]
[[!meta date="Wed, 4 Sep 2019 17:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails by testing the second beta for the upcoming version 4.0!

We are very excited about it and cannot wait to hear your feedback :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 4.0~beta2?

Tails 4.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 10
(Buster). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

We are particularly interested in detecting new problems with the following
hardware:

- Mac computers
- Recent Nvidia and ATI/AMD graphics cards

Other changes in Tails 4.0~beta2 include:

- All changes [[included in 4.0~beta1|news/test_4.0-beta1]].

- All changes [[included in Tails 3.16|news/version_3.16]].

- Update *Linux* to 5.2.9. This mitigates the Spectre v1 swapgs
  security vulnerability.

- Update *tor* to 0.4.1.5.

- Update *Enigmail* to 2.0.12.

- Make the *GNOME Desktop* load faster.

- Save about 250 MB of RAM.

- In the *Applications* menu, move *Calculator* and *Terminal* to
  where they were in Tails 3.x. This avoids the need to scroll in the
  *Utilities* submenu.

- Allow *OnionShare* to open links with *Tor Browser*.

- Use the same icon for Tails Documentation in the *Applications* menu
  as on the *Desktop*.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://salsa.debian.org/tails-team/tails/blob/devel/debian/changelog).

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 4.0~beta2

* Tails 4.0~beta2 cannot always be built reproducibly ([[!tails_ticket 17023]]).
  The difference we've observed is minor and has no security impact.

* [Open tickets for Tails 4.0](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=279)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

# How to test Tails 4.0~beta2?

We will provide security upgrades for Tails 4.0~beta2 like we do for regular
versions of Tails.

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

# Get Tails 4.0~beta2

## To download 4.0~beta2

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.img.sig]])

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~beta2.iso.torrent)

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.0~beta1.

- You can do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux/usb]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.0 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 22.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.0-beta2">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
