[[!meta title="Call for testing: 2.0~beta1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 22 Dec 2015 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first beta for the upcoming version 2.0 is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 2.0?

Tails 2.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 8
(Jessie). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

The most noticeable change is probably the move to GNOME Shell,
configured in *Classic mode*. This desktop environment provides a modern
and actively developed replacement for the aging GNOME "Flashback".
GNOME Shell also paves the way for better supporting touchscreens in
the future.

Under the hood, an amazing amount of code was ported to more modern
technologies. This, in turn, allowed us to do lots of small changes
all around the place, that will make the Tails experience both
safer, and more pleasant. For example, all custom system services
are harder to exploit thanks to the use of Linux namespaces, set up by
systemd. And the way Tails tells the user that "Tor is ready" is now
more accurate.

But really, there are simply too many changes to describe them all
here, so just try Tails 2.0~beta1 yourself!

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

There is only one piece of bad news, that makes us a bit sad, though: we
had to remove the Windows camouflage feature, since our call for help
to port it to GNOME Shell (issued in January, 2015) was unsuccessful.

# How to test Tails 2.0~beta1?

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have ensured
   that it is not broken in any obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

2. Download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 2.0~beta1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-2.0~beta1.iso.sig">Tails 2.0~beta1 signature</a>

   Note that there is no automatic upgrade applicable to this release.

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 2.0~beta1
=========================

* The documentation was not adjusted yet.

* The <span class="application">Electrum</span> Bitcoin client
  is not functional ([[!tails_ticket 10754]]).

* The network is sometimes not unblocked after logging in
  ([[!tails_ticket 9012]]). If this happens to you, please send
  <intrigeri@boum.org> the complete output of the `sudo
  tails-debugging-info` command.

* The *Dotfiles* persistence feature does not work correctly
  ([[!tails_ticket 10784]]).

* Default file associations are missing ([[!tails_ticket 10798]]).

* It is not possible to
  [[re-configure an existing persistent volume|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure]]
  using the persistent volume assistant ([[!tails_ticket 10809]]).
  However, it is possible to
  [[use|doc/first_steps/persistence/use]] an existing
  persistent volume, and to create a new one.

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
