[[!meta title="Call for testing 4.19~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 14 May 2021 10:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Contribute to Tails by testing our release candidate for Tails 4.19!

We are very excited about it and cannot wait to hear your feedback :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="new">What's new in 4.19~rc1?</h1>

Tails 4.19, scheduled for June 1, will completely change how to connect to the
Tor network from Tails. We would like as many people as possible to test this
beta version to be able to fix as many problems as possible before we release
4.19 to all users.

[[!img tor-connection.png link="no" alt="" width="600"]]

Over the years, we have identified many issues in how to connect to the Tor
network from Tails, thanks to your feedback. With this beta, we are trying to
solve the most important and pressing of these issues:

- The lack of feeback while connecting to the Tor network.

- The option to use Tor bridges has to be turned on in the Welcome Screen and
  cannot be changed afterwards.

- The lack of default Tor bridges.

- The previous configuration screen for Tor bridges wasn't accessible to people
  who use the screen reader.

- The lack of guidance when Tails is not connected to a local network yet.

<h1>What's new since 4.19~beta1?</h1>

The Tor Connection experience has had several improvements and
bugfixes since 4.19~beta1. For more details, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/4.19-rc1/debian/changelog).

<div class="caution">

<p>If you manually upgraded from Tails 4.12 or earlier to 4.19~beta1
and did the [[Thunderbird OpenPGP
migration|doc/anonymous_internet/thunderbird/openpgp_migration]] then
your keys are not protected by the master password ([[!tails_ticket
18316]], <a class="use-mirror-pool"
href="https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1710290">Mozilla
bug</a>). They are still protected by the persistent storage's
encrypting, but once that is unlocked the keys are unprotected. This
should be fixed in the final Tails 4.19.</p>

</div>

<h1>Get Tails 4.19~rc1</h1>

<h2 id="upgrade">To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage</h1>

- Automatic upgrades to Tails 4.19~rc1 are available from versions 4.2
  or later.

  If you installed 4.19~beta1 you should automatically be asked to
  upgrade the next time you start it.
  
  If you are running Tails 4.2 to 4.18, you can upgrade like this:

  1. Start Tails and
     [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].
  
  1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:
  
         echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
              tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper
  
     Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
     for amnesia".
  
  1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
     **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
     to verify that you are running Tails 4.19~rc1.

<h2 id="download">Download Tails 4.19~rc1</h1>

Download and install Tails 4.19~rc1 as usually.

<div class="caution">

<p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost. Don't install Tails 4.19~rc1
on any USB stick that already has a Persistent Storage, upgrade instead.</p>

</div>

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a><br/>
    <small>OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.img.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: f0d60fe7ff6bd29733937eee09e31a928e6cc0924ede33d688235a35c8a0042c</small>

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a><br/>
    <small>OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.iso.sig]]<br/>SHA256SUM: 2ccd2c02836d5a2d840a07cbfa8f3b73246813b5f387ce5c12b3e30bf17bc4f1</small>

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.19~rc1.iso.torrent)

<h1 id="how-to-test">What to test in Tails 4.19~rc1?</h1>

We know that Tails 4.19~rc1 still has many rough edges. But we still need
your help to identify as many new problems as possible!

We're particularly interested in you testing diverse and rare network
configurations:

- When connecting to Tor without bridges fails.

- When Tails is not connected to a local network yet.

- When disconnecting from a Wi-Fi network with Internet connectivity and then
  reconnecting to a different Wi-Fi network without Internet connectivity.

- When disconnecting from Wi-Fi network that don't require Tor bridges and the
  reconnecting to different Wi-Fi network that requires Tor bridges.

- When connecting to a Tor bridge that works at first but then stops working.

- When connecting to the Internet using a proxy.

Tell us if anything is unclear, confusing, or not working as you would expect.

Please, send your feedback to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

If you are comfortable with the command line, check our [hacking
tips](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/blob/devel/config/chroot_local-includes/usr/share/doc/tails/tca/HACKING.md).
They contain firewall rules that can be used to block access to the Tor network
without bridges or simulate a broken bridge.

<h1 id="known-issues">Known issues in 4.19~rc1</h1>

* Korean and Polish localization is not available ([[!tails_ticket
  18319]]). We will attempt to fix this in the final Tailss 4.19
  release.

<h1 id="next">What's coming next?</h1>

Tails 4.19 will be the first release of a series of improvements to connect to
Tor. Next, we will work on:

- Saving Tor bridges to the Persistent Storage ([[!tails_ticket 5461]])
- Detecting better when the computer has no supported Wi-Fi hardware ([[!tails_ticket 14534]])
- Detecting captive portals ([[!tails_ticket 5785]])
- Helping people fixing their clock when failing to connect to `obfs4` bridges ([[!tails_ticket 15548]])

The learn more about our plans, read our [[!tails_blueprint network_connection
desc="blueprint on network connection"]].

Happy testing!
