[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.12~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Sun, 20 Jan 2019 16:17:18 +0000"]]

[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming
version 3.12 is out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what
you think about it, especially the new simplified USB installation
method (see below). :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Make the USB image the main supported way to install Tails (refs:
  [[!tails_ticket 15292]]). On first boot, grow the system partition
  to a size that's a factor of the size of the boot medium and
  randomize GUIDs (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 15319]]).
- Upgrade Linux to 4.19, version 4.19.13-1 which fixes the issue where
  Intel graphics cards booted to a black screen (Closes:
  [[!tails_ticket 16073]], [[!tails_ticket 16224]]).  Fixes
  CVE-2018-19985, CVE-2018-19406, CVE-2018-16862, CVE-2018-18397,
  CVE-2018-18397, CVE-2018-18397, CVE-2018-18397, CVE-2018-19824,
  CVE-2018-14625.
- Remove Liferea (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 11082]], [[!tails_ticket
  15776]]).
- Tell the user they need to use sudo when they attempt to use su
  (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 15583]]).

## Fixed problems

- Fix Totem's access to the Internet when it's started from the
  Applications menu.

For more details, read our [[!tails_testing_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

Known issues
==============

There are no known issues specific to Tails 3.12~rc1 so far.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails 3.12~rc1?

**Keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is not
broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered
issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Upgrade from 3.11
-----------------

1. Start Tails 3.11 on a USB stick installed using *Tails Installer* and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Terminal</span>
   to select the "alpha" upgrade channel and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

   and enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. After the upgrade is installed, restart Tails and choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to verify that you are running Tails 3.12~rc1.

Download and install
--------------------

### If you intend to install Tails on a USB drive

Tails 3.12 will be the first release to use our simplified USB
installation method so we really would like you to try it out with
this release candidate!

First download the USB image:

<a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.img">Tails 3.12~rc1 USB image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.img.sig]]</span>
<br/>
<a class="download-file" href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.img.torrent" >Tails 3.12~rc1 USB image torrent</a>

Then follow [[the new installation instructions|news/test_usb_images]].

### If you intend to burn Tails to a DVD

You can also install 3.12~rc1 by following our old
[[installation instructions|install]], skipping the **Download and
verify** step.

<a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.iso">Tails 3.12~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>
<br/>
<a class="download-file" href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.12~rc1.iso.torrent" >Tails 3.12~rc1 ISO image torrent</a>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.12 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 29.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.12-rc1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
