[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.2~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 16 Sep 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming
version 3.2 is out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what
you think about it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.2~rc1?

Significant changes since Tails 3.1 include:

* Upgrade to Tails Installer 4.4.19, which gets rid of the splash
  screen, detects when Tails already is installed on the target device
  (and then proposes to upgrade), and generally improves the UX. We
  are _very_ interested in reports about problems with this new
  version of Tails Installer.

* The Root Terminal has gone through some significant back-end
  changes; please make sure it works like before (or better)!

* Add PPPoE support; if you have a DSL or dial-up connection that uses
  PPPoE, please give it a try!

* Bluetooth support is now completely disabled (details:
  [[!tails_ticket 14655]]). If this makes it hard for you to use
  Tails, please let us know!

* Upgrade to Linux 4.12.12, which improves hardware support,
  e.g. better support for the Nvidia Maxwell series of graphics cards.

* Upgrade to Thunderbird 52.3.0. Ideally it should work exactly like
  before, or better.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.2~rc1?

**Keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is not
broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered
issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Upgrade from 3.1
----------------

1. Start Tails 3.1 on a USB stick installed using *Tails Installer* and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Terminal</span>
   to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

   and enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. After the upgrade is installed, restart Tails and choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to verify that you are running Tails 3.2~rc1.

Download and install
--------------------

You can install 3.2~rc1 by following our usual
[[installation instructions|install]], skipping the **Download and
verify** step.

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.2~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.2~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>
<br/>
<a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 3.2~rc1 torrent</a>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.2~rc1
=======================

* GNOME screen keyboard (that replaced Florence in this version) is
  not working: pressing its on-screen keyboard buttons do nothing
  ([[!tails_ticket 14675]]).

[[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.2 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] on September 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
