[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.6~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Fri, 02 Mar 2018 16:44:06 +0000"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming
version 3.6 is out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what
you think about it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.6~rc1?

Significant changes since Tails 3.5 include:

* Upgrade Tor to 3.2.9.

* Upgrade Linux kernel to 4.15.0.

* Upgrade Thunderbird to 52.6.0 and enable its apparmor profile.

* Upgrade Electrum to 3.0.6.

* Add support for screen locking, even without administration password.

* Upgrade tails-additional-softwares, which does not block anymore the
  opening of the Desktop while installing the packages, and is more robust
  when botting in offline mode.

* Upgrade Tails installer to fix bugs when using it in languages
  different than english.

* Upgrade OpenPGP Applet, it does not hang anymore when decrypting large
  text from the clipboard.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.6~rc1?

**Keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is not
broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered
issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Upgrade from 3.5
----------------

1. Start Tails 3.5 on a USB stick installed using *Tails Installer* and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Terminal</span>
   to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

   and enter the administration password when asked for the "password
   for amnesia".

1. After the upgrade is installed, restart Tails and choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to verify that you are running Tails 3.6~rc1.

Download and install
--------------------

You can install 3.6~rc1 by following our usual
[[installation instructions|install]], skipping the **Download and
verify** step.

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-3.6~rc1/tails-amd64-3.6~rc1.iso">Tails 3.6~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.6~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>
<br/>
<a class="download-file" href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.6~rc1.torrent" >Tails 3.6~rc1 torrent</a>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.6~rc1
=======================

We did not discover new issues other than the [[longstanding
ones|support/known_issues]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.6 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] on March 12.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
