[[!meta title="Call for testing: redesigned Tails Greeter"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 06 Dec 2016 19:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first alpha for the redesigned <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What is <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

<span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is the set of dialogs that
appear after the <span class="application">boot menu</span>, but before the
<span class="application">GNOME Desktop</span> appears.

It lets you choose your language, enable your persistent volume, and
set a number of other options.

# Why a new <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

We had two main reasons to redesign <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>:

* Usability testing has demonstrated that it is not as easy to use as
  we would like, especially for people trying Tails for the
  first time.
* We have pushed the old interface to its limits; it cannot
  accommodate the options we would like to add to it.

# What is new in the redesigned <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

Nearly everything you can see has changed! We have been working for
more than two years with designers to make <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span> easier to use:

[[!img greeter-alpha.png link="no" class="margin center" alt="Redesigned Tails Greeter
alpha screenshot"]]

# How to test the redesigned <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>?

**Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We did not carefully test
it so it is not guaranteed to provide any security or anonymity.

But test wildly!

## Download and install

<a class="download-file"
href="https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_feature-8230-greeter-revamp-phase1/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/">experimental
Tails ISO image including the redesigned <span
class="application">Tails Greeter</span></a>

The line corresponding to the ISO image is the one whose size is `1G`.

<div class="bug">

<p>
You cannot install this ISO image from Tails 2.x. It is impossible
as well to upgrade to this ISO image from Tails 2.x. So, either
install or upgrade from a non-Tails system, or start this ISO image
from DVD and then clone it to a USB stick.
</p>

</div>

To install this ISO image, follow our usual [[installation instructions|install]],
skipping the **Download and verify** step.

## What to test

Don't hesitate to test all kinds of options, and ensure they are taken into account in
the Tails session.

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report
to us on <tails-testers@boum.org>, including the exact filename of the
ISO image you have tested.

# Known issues in the redesigned <span class="application">Tails Greeter</a>

* This experimental ISO image is based on
  [[Tails 3.0~alpha1|news/test_3.0-alpha1]], so all
  [open issues for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)
  apply to it as well.
* <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> is not translated in
  many languages yet.

# Like it?

We have a donation campaign going on: we explained you
[[why we needed donations|news/why_we_need_donations]],
[[how we use these donations|news/what_we_do_with_your_money]], and we
shared with you
[[our plans for the next years|news/our_plans_for_2017]].

So if you want Tails to remain independent, if you want to enable the
Tails team to work on projects we think are important, such as
redesigning <span class="application">Tails Greeter</a>, please take
one minute to make a donation.

<div id="donate-button"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=roadmap">Donate</a></div>
