[[!meta title="Call for testing: 2.2~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 23 Feb 2016 17:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 2.2 is
out. Please test it and report any issue.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 2.2~rc1?
==========================

**Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We tested
that it is not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Download and install
--------------------

<a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 2.2~rc1 torrent</a>

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="" >Tails 2.2~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-i386-2.2~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>

To install 2.2~rc1, follow our usual [[installation instructions|install]],
skipping the **Download and verify** step.

Upgrade from 2.0.1
------------------

1. Start Tails 2.0.1 on a USB stick installed using *Tails Installer* and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. After the upgrade is installed, restart Tails and choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to verify that you are running Tails 2.2~rc1.

What's new since 2.0.1?
=======================

Changes since Tails 2.0.1 are:

  * Major new features and changes
    - Replace Vidalia (which has been unmaintained for years) with:
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 6841]])
      * the Tor Status GNOME Shell extension, which adds a System Status
        icon indicating whether Tor is ready or not.
      * Onion Circuits, a simple Tor circuit monitoring tool.

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade cpio to 2.11+dfsg-4.1+deb8u1.
    - Upgrade glibc to 2.19-18+deb8u3.
    - Upgrade libgraphite2 to 1.3.5-1~deb8u1.
    - Upgrade libreoffice to 4.3.3-2+deb8u3.
    - Upgrade libssh2 to 1.4.3-4.1+deb8u1.

  * Bugfixes
    - Hide "Laptop Mode Tools Configuration" menu entry. We don't
      support configuring l-m-t in Tails, and it doesn't work out of
      the box. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 11074]])
    - WhisperBack:
      * Actually write a string when saving bug report to
        disk. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 11133]])
      * Add missing argument to OpenPGP dialog so the optional OpenPGP
        key can be added again. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 11033]])

  * Minor improvements
    - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.24-1~deb8u+1.
    - Add support for viewing DRM protected DVD videos using
      libdvdcss2. Patch series submitted by Austin English
      <austinenglish@gmail.com>. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 7674]])
    - Automatically save KeePassX database after every change by default.
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 11147]])
    - Implement Tor stream isolation for WhisperBack
    - Delete unused tor-tsocks-mua.conf previously used by Claws
      Mail. (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 10904]])
    - Add set -u to all gettext:ized shell scripts. In gettext-base <
      1.8.2, like the one we had in Wheezy, gettext.sh references the
      environment variable ZSH_VERSION, which we do not set. This has
      prevented us from doing `set -u` without various hacks. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 9371]])
    - Also set -e in some shell scripts which lacked it for no good
      reason.
    - Make Git verify the integrity of transferred objects. (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 11107]])

For more details, see also our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=testing).

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 2.2~rc1

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

* Tails 2.2~rc1 thinks it is Tails 2.2 in some respects, e.g. that is
  what the "About Tails" prompt and `tails-version` command will
  output, and also what is put in the meta data of the ISO image (and
  so what burnt DVD's will be titled).
