[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.2~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="2014-10-09 12:00:00"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 1.2 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.2~rc1?
==========================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

1. Either try the <a href="#automatic_upgrade">automatic upgrade</a>, or
   download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-i386-1.2~rc1/tails-i386-1.2~rc1.iso" >Tails 1.2~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.2~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 1.2~rc1 signature</a>

1. [[Verify the ISO image|download#verify]].

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<div id="automatic_upgrade"></a>

How to automatically upgrade from 1.1.2?
========================================

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.1.2 to Tails 1.2~rc1.

1. Start Tails 1.1.2 from a USB stick or SD card, and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. Once the upgrade has been installed, restart Tails and look at
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">System</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to confirm that the running system is Tails 1.2~rc1.

What's new since 1.1.2?
=======================

Notable changes since Tails 1.1.2 include:

  * Major new features
    - Migrate from Iceweasel to the Tor Browser from the Tor Browser
      Bundle. Except Firefox new graphical interface, the name change,
      and the new icon, everything should be identical to the browser
      in previous Tails releases.
    - Enable the AppArmor Linux security module to add Mandatory
      Access control for several critical applications in Tails.
    - Isolate I2P traffic from the Tor Browser by adding a dedicated
      I2P Browser, which can be started from
      <span class="menuchoice">
         <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
         <span class="guimenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
         <span class="guimenuitem">I2P Browser</span>
      </span>.

  * Bugfixes
    - Disable cups in the Unsafe Browser. This will prevent the
      browser from hanging for several minutes when accidentally
      pressing CTRL+P or trying to go to
      <span class="menuchoice">
         <span class="guimenu">File</span>&nbsp;▸
         <span class="guimenuitem">Print</span>
      </span>.

  * Minor improvements
    - Install Linux 3.16-2 from Debian unstable.
    - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.15-1~deb7u+1
    - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.5.8-rc-1~d70.wheezy+1.
    - Start I2P automatically when the network connects via a
      NetworkManager hook, and "i2p" is present on the kernel command
      line. The router console is no longer opened automatically, but
      can be accessed through the I2P Browser.
    - Make it clear in the TrueCrypt wrapper that TrueCrypt will be
      removed in Tails 1.3 or earlier (Closes: #7739).
    - Enable VirtualBox guest additions by default (Closes: #5730). In
      particular this enables VirtualBox's display management service.
    - Show Pidgin's formatting toolbar (Closes: #7356). Having the
      formatting toolbar displayed in Pidgin makes the OTR status more
      explicit by displaying it with words.

See the <a href="https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=1.2-rc1">online
Changelog</a> for technical details.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 1.2~rc1

* [[Longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]]
