[[!meta title="Call for testing: 2.12~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 07 Apr 2017 01:02:03 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 2.12 is
out. Please test it and report any issue. We are particularly interested in
feedback relating to whether Tor's startup works better or worse.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 2.12~rc1?
==========================

**Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We tested
that it is not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Download and install
--------------------

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="" >Tails 2.12~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-i386-2.12~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>

To install 2.12~rc1, follow our usual [[installation instructions|install]],
skipping the **Download and verify** step.

Upgrade from 2.10 or 2.11
-------------------------

1. Start Tails 2.10 or 2.11 on a USB stick installed using *Tails Installer* and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. After the upgrade is installed, restart Tails and choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to verify that you are running Tails 2.12~rc1.

What's new since 2.11?
=======================

Changes since Tails 2.11 are:

  * Major changes
    - Completely remove I2P. :( We have decided to remove I2P (see
      [[!tails_ticket 11276]]) due to our failure of finding someone
      interested in maintaining it in Tails (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 12263]]).
    - Upgrade the Linux kernel to 4.9.0-0.bpo.2 (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 12122]]).

  * Security fixes
    - Mount a dedicated filesystem on /var/tmp, to mitigate the
      hardlinks permissions open by the user-tmp abstraction. See
      https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/9949#note-23 for details
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 12125]]).
    - Protect against CVE-2017-2636 by disabling the n-hdlc kernel
      module (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 12315]]).
    - Ensure /etc/resolv.conf is owned by root:root in the SquashFS.
      lb_chroot_resolv will "cp -a" it from the source tree, so it
      inherits its ownership from the whoever cloned the Git
      repository. This has two problems. First, this results in unsafe
      permissions on this file (e.g. a Vagrant build results in the
      'amnesia' user having write access to it).

  * Minor improvements
    - Don't add the live user to the "audio" group. This should not be
      needed on a modern Linux desktop system anymore (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 12209]]).
    - Install virtualbox-* 5.1.14-dfsg-3~bpo8+1 from our custom APT
      repository (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 12307]]).
    - Install virtualbox-guest-\* from sid. The version currently in
      jessie-backports is not compatible with Linux 4.9, and there's
      basically no chance that it gets updated (the maintainer asked
      for them to be *removed* from jessie-backports) (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 12298]]).
    - Pull ttdnsd from our custom APT repository. It's gone from the
      TorProject one. We removed ttdnsd on feature/stretch already, so
      we'll need to pull it from our custom APT repository only for
      the next 3 months.
    - Clean up libdvd-pkg build files, again.  This cleanup operation
      was mistakenly removed in commit c4e8744 (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 11273]]).
    - Install gnome-sound-recorder (Closes
      [[!tails_ticket 10950]]). Thanks to Austin English
      <austinenglish@gmail.com> for the patch!
    - Stop restarting tor if bootstrapping stalls. It seems tor might
      have fixed the issues we used (see: [[!tails_ticket 10238]],
      [[!tails_ticket 9516]]) to experience with the bootstrap process
      stalling and requiring a restart to kickstart it (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 12411]]).
    - tor.sh: communicate via the UNIX socket instead of TCP port.
      This makes the library usable when run inside systemd units that
      have `PrivateNetwork=yes` set.
    - Get tor's bootstrap progress via GETINFO instead of log
      grep:ing.

  * Bugfixes
    - mirror-pool-dispatcher: bump maximum expected mirrors.json size
      to 32 KiB. This fixes an error where Tails Upgrader would
      complain with "cannot choose a download server" (Closes:
      [[!tails_ticket 11735]]).

For more details, see also our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=testing).

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 2.12~rc1

* In Tails Greeter, selecting the _This computer's Internet connection
  is censored, filtered, or proxied_ is broken. Using it will start
  Tor Launcher but it will fail to connect to `tor`, so it's unusable,
  and `tor` itself will not be able to bootstrap. If you need this
  option, skip this release candidate; this issue will be fixed in the
  final 2.12 release.

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
