[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.1~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 15 Jul 2014 18:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 1.1 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.1~rc1?
============================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

2. Download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 1.1~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.1~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 1.1~rc1 signature</a>

   Note that there is no automatic upgrade targetting this release!

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

What's new since 1.1~beta1?
===========================

Notable changes since Tails 1.1~beta1 include:

* Security fixes
  - Don't allow the desktop user to pass arguments to
    `tails-upgrade-frontend` ([[!tails_ticket 7410]]).
  - Make persistent file permissions safer ([[!tails_ticket 7443]]).
  - Set strict permissions on `/home/amnesia` ([[!tails_ticket 7463]]).
  - Disable FoxyProxy's `proxy://` protocol handler ([[!tails_ticket 7479]]).

* Bug fixes
  - Use pinentry as the GnuPG agent, as we do on Squeeze
    ([[!tails_ticket 7330]]). This is needed to support
    OpenPGP smartcards.
  - Cleanup some packages that were installed by mistake.
  - Fix emergency shutdown when removing the boot device before login
    ([[!tails_ticket 7333]]).
  - Resume support of persistent volumes created with Tails 1.0.1
    and earlier ([[!tails_ticket 7343]]).
  - Revert back to browsing the offline documentation using Iceweasel
    instead of Yelp ([[!tails_ticket 7390]], [[!tails_ticket 7285]]).
  - Automatically transition NetworkManager persistence setting
    when upgrading from Squeeze to Wheezy ([[!tails_ticket 7338]]).
    Note: the data is *not* migrated.
  - Fix the Unsafe Web Browser startup in Windows camouflage mode
    ([[!tails_ticket 7329]]).
  - Make it possible to close error messages displayed by the
    persistent volume assistant ([[!tails_ticket 7119]]).
  - Fix some file associations, with a backport of shared-mime-info
    1.3 ([[!tails_ticket 7079]]).

* Minor improvements
  - Various improvements to the Windows 8 camouflage.
  - Fix "Upgrade from ISO" functionality when run from a Tails system
    that ships a different version of syslinux than the one in
    the ISO ([[!tails_ticket 7345]]).
  - Ensure that the MBR matches the syslinux version used by the Tails
    release it is supposed to boot.
  - Help Universal USB Installer support Tails again, by include
    syslinux.exe for Windows in the ISO filesystem ([[!tails_ticket
    7425]]).
  - Improve the Tails Installer user interface a bit.
  - Enable double-clicking to pick entries in the language or
    keyboard layout lists in Tails Greeter.

See the <a href="https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=1.1-rc1">online
Changelog</a> for technical details.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 1.1~rc1

* Upgrading from ISO, from Tails 1.1~beta1, Tails 1.0.1 or earlier, is
  a bit more complicated than usual. Either follow <a
  href="#from_iso">the instructions to upgrade from ISO</a>. Or,
  burn a DVD, start Tails from it, and use "Clone and Upgrade".

* A persistent volume created with Tails 1.1~beta1 cannot be used with
  Tails 1.1~rc1 or later. Worse, trying this may freeze Tails Greeter.

* Does not start in some virtualization environments, such as
  QEMU 0.11.1 and VirtualBox 4.2. This can be corrected by upgrading
  to QEMU 1.0 or VirtualBox 4.3, or newer ([[!tails_ticket 7232]]).

* The web browser's JavaScript performance may be severely degraded
  ([[!tails_ticket 7127]]). Please let us know if you are experiencing
  this to a level where it is problematic.

<a id="from_iso"></a>

# How to upgrade from ISO?

These steps allow you to upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.0.1, Tails
1.1~beta1 or earlier, to Tails 1.1~rc1.

1. Start Tails from another DVD, USB stick, or SD card, than the
   device that you want to upgrade.

2. [[Set an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

3. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to install the latest version of <span
   class="application">Tails Installer</span>:

       echo "deb http://deb.tails.boum.org/ 1.1-rc1 main" \
           > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tails-upgrade.list && \
           apt-get update && \
           apt-get install liveusb-creator

4. Follow the [[usual instructions to upgrade from
   ISO|doc/first_steps/upgrade#from_iso]], but the first step.
