[[!meta title="Call for testing: 4.5~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 27 Mar 2020 17:05:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

Tails 4.5, scheduled for April 7, will be the first version of Tails to
support Secure Boot.

You can help Tails by testing the release candidate for Tails 4.5 now.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Secure Boot

Tails 4.5~rc1 should start on computers in UEFI mode and with Secure
Boot enabled.

# Known issues

If your Mac displays the following error:

<pre>Security settings do not allow this Mac to use an external startup disk.</pre>

<p>Then you have to change the change the settings of the <em>Startup
Security Utility</em> of your Mac to authorize starting from Tails.</p>

[[!toggle id="mac" text="Read our instructions on how to authorize
starting from Tails on your Mac."]]

[[!toggleable id="mac" text="""

<p>To open <em>Startup Security Utility</em>:</p>

<ol>

  <!-- Section copied from https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208198 -->

  <li><p>Turn on your Mac, then press and hold <strong>Command(⌘)+R</strong>
  immediately after you see the Apple logo. Your Mac starts up from
  <a href="https://support.apple.com/kb/HT201314">macOS Recovery</a>.</p></li>

  <li><p>When you see the macOS <em>Utilities</em> window, choose
  <strong>Utilities&nbsp;▸ Startup Security Utility</strong> from the menu
  bar.</p></li>

  <li><p>When you are asked to authenticate, click <strong>Enter macOS
  Password</strong>, then choose an administrator account and enter its
  password.</p></li>

</ol>

<p>[[!img startup-security-utility.png link="no" alt="Startup Security Utility"]]</p>

<p>In the <em>Startup Security Utility</em>:</p>

<ul>

  <li><p>Choose <strong>No Security</strong> in the <strong>Secure
  Boot</strong> section.</p></li>

  <li><p>Choose <strong>Allow booting from external media</strong> in the
  <strong>External Boot</strong>.</p></li>

</ul>

<div class="tip">

<p>To still protect your Mac from starting on untrusted external media, you
can <a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204455">set a firmware password</a>, available on macOS Mountain Lion or later. A
firmware password prevents users who do not have the password from starting
up from any media other than the designated startup disk.</p>

<p><strong>If you forget your firmware password it will require an in-person
service appointment with an Apple Store or Apple Authorized Service
Provider.</strong></p>

</div>

<p>Read more on Apple Support about:</p>

<ul>

  <li><a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208198">Startup Security Utility</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208330">Secure Boot</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204455">How to set a firmware password on your Mac</a></li>

</ul>

</li>

"""]]

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails 4.5~rc1?

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

# Get Tails 4.5~rc1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2 or later to 4.5~rc1.

  To do an automatic upgrade to Tails 4.5~rc1:

  1. Start Tails 4.2 or later and
     [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].
  
  1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:
  
         echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
              tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper
  
     Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
     for amnesia".
  
  1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
     **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
     to verify that you are running Tails 4.5~rc1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To download 4.5~rc1

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.img.sig]])

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.5~rc1.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux/usb]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 7.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.5-rc1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
