[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.0~beta3"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 19 Mar 2017 20:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The third beta for the upcoming version 3.0 is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.0~beta3?

Tails 3.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 9
(Stretch). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

Other changes since Tails 3.0~beta2 include:

 * Important security fixes!

 * Upgrade to current Debian 9 (Stretch).

 * Tails Greeter:
   - Make the "Formats" settings in Tails Greeter take effect (it was
     introduced in Tails 3.0~alpha1 but has been broken since then).
   - Add keyboard shortcuts:
     * Alt key for accelerators in the main window
     * Ctrl+Shift+A for setting an administrator password
     * Ctrl+Shift+M for MAC spoofing settings
     * Ctrl+Shift+N for Tor network settings

 * Remove I2P. (This will happen in Tails 2.12 as well.)

 * Reintroduce the X11 guest utilities for VirtualBox (clipboard
   sharing and shared folders should work again).

 * Upgrade X.Org server and the modesetting driver in hope it will fix
   crashes when using some Intel graphics cards.

 * Automate the migration from KeePassX databases generated on
   Tails 2.x to the format required by KeePassX 2.0.x.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.0~beta3?

**We will provide security updates for Tails 3.0~beta3**, just like we do
for stable versions of Tails.

But **keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is
not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Get Tails 3.0~beta3
-------------------

To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 3.0~beta2 to
3.0~beta3.

If you cannot do an automatic upgrade, you can install 3.0~beta3 by
following our usual [[installation instructions|install]], skipping
the **Download and verify** step.

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.0~beta3 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.0~beta3.iso.sig]]</span>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.0~beta3
=========================

* The documentation has only been partially updated so far.

* There is no <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> feature for the
  persistent volume anymore; it is not clear yet whether it will be
  re-introduced in time for Tails 3.0 final ([[!tails_ticket 12093]]).

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
