[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.0~beta4"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 19 Apr 2017 20:50:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The fourth beta for the upcoming version 3.0 is
out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what you think about
it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.0~beta4?

Tails 3.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 9
(Stretch). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

Other changes since Tails 3.0~beta3 include:

 * Important security fixes!

 * All changes brought by Tails 2.12.

 * Upgrade to current Debian 9 (Stretch).

 * Many bug fixes in *Tails Greeter*.

 * Fix the ORCA screen reader.

 * Replace *Pidgin*'s "systray" icon with the *guifications* plugin.

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.0~beta4?

**We will provide security updates for Tails 3.0~beta4**, just like we do
for stable versions of Tails.

But **keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is
not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Get Tails 3.0~beta4
-------------------

To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 3.0~beta2 and
3.0~beta3 to 3.0~beta4.

If you cannot do an automatic upgrade, you can install 3.0~beta4 by
following our usual [[installation instructions|install]], skipping
the **Download and verify** step.

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.0~beta4 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.0~beta4.iso.sig]]</span>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.0~beta4
=========================

* The documentation has only been partially updated so far.

* The graphical interface fails to start on some Intel
  graphics adapters. If this happens to you:
  1. Add the `xorg-driver=intel` option in the
     [[boot menu|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]].
  2. If this fixes the problem, report to to <tails-testers@boum.org>
     the output of the following commands:
     
         lspci -v
         lspci -mn
     
     … so we get the identifier of your graphics adapter and can have
     this fix applied automatically in the next Tails 3.0 pre-release.
  3. If this does not fix the problem, try Troubleshooting Mode and
     report the problem to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Include the exact
     model of your Intel graphics adapter.

* There is no <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> feature for the
  persistent volume anymore; it is not clear yet whether it will be
  re-introduced in time for Tails 3.0 final ([[!tails_ticket 12093]]).

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0~rc1](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=242)

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

# What's coming up?

We will likely publish the first release candidate for Tails 3.0
around May 19.

Tails 3.0 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.0-beta4">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
