[[!meta title="Call for testing: 4.11~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Sun, 6 Sep 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

Tails 4.11, scheduled for September 22, will be the first version of
Tails to include Tor Browser 10.0 and to support persistent settings
on the Welcome Screen!

You can help Tails by testing the release candidate for Tails 4.11 now.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Persistent settings on the Welcome Screen

If you enable this persistence feature your Welcome Screen settings,
like language selection and any administration password, will be
automatically saved between sessions. While at the Welcome Screen the
settings are restored as soon as you unlock your persistent encrypted
volume. Please let us know if there are any problems!

# Tor Browser 10.0 (alpha 6)

This new major release of Tor Browser is based on a brand new Firefox
ESR series, version 78, which contains tons of changes, most under the
hood. There's a risk that some of these changes break some expected
feature in Tails, so please pay close attention and report any such
issues to us!

# Changelog

For more details about what has changed in Tails 4.11~rc1, read our
[changelog](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/raw/4.11-rc1/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

* In Tor Browser, opening `file://` URLs has a problem: opening any
  such local file will result in an infinite refresh loop like if you
  kept the F5 key pressed, so it will likely not display anything. At
  the moment this makes it impossible to read the offline
  documentation inside Tails, for instance. This will be fixed in
  Tails 4.11.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails 4.11~rc1?

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

# Get Tails 4.11~rc1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2 or later to 4.11~rc1.

  To do an automatic upgrade to Tails 4.11~rc1:

  1. Start Tails 4.2 or later and
     [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].
  
  1. Run this command in a *Terminal*:
  
         echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" | sudo tee -a /etc/os-release && \
              tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper
  
     Enter the administration password when asked for the "password
     for amnesia".
  
  1. After the upgrade is applied, restart Tails and choose
     **Applications&nbsp;▸ Tails&nbsp;▸ About Tails**
     to verify that you are running Tails 4.11~rc1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To download 4.11~rc1

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.img.sig]])

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.11~rc1.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux/usb]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.11 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for September 22.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.11-rc1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
