[[!meta title="Call for testing: 4.0~rc1"]]
[[!meta date="Fri, 11 Oct 2019 17:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

Tails 4.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 10
(Buster). It brings new versions of most of the software included in
Tails and some important usability and performance improvements.

You can help Tails by testing the release candidate for the upcoming version 4.0!

We are very excited about it and cannot wait to hear your feedback :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

## Major changes to included software

- Update *Tor Browser* to 9.0a7, based on Firefox 68.1.0esr.

- Update *Electrum* to 3.3.8, which works with the current Bitcoin network.

- Update *Linux* to 5.3.2.

- Update *tor* to 0.4.1.6.

## Usability improvements to *Tails Greeter*

We improved various aspects of the usability of *Tails Greeter*,
especially for non-English users.

- To make it easier to select a language, we curated the list of
  proposed languages by removing the ones that had too little
  translations to be useful.

- We also simplified the list of keyboard layouts.

- We fixed the **Formats** setting, which was not being applied.

- We prevented additional settings to be applied when clicking on
  **Cancel** or **Back**.

# Fixed problems

- Fix the delivery of *WhisperBack* reports. ([[!tails_ticket 17110]])

- Dozens of other problems — literally. For more details, read our
  [changelog](https://salsa.debian.org/tails-team/tails/blob/testing/debian/changelog).

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues

- Spellchecking only works for English. ([[!tails_ticket 17150]])

  To fix it, set `spellchecker.dictionary_path` to `/usr/share/hunspell`
  in `about:config`.

- *Unsafe Browser* tabs have the "Private Browsing" name and the *Tor
  Browser*'s icon. ([[!tails_ticket 17142]])

- The *On-screen keyboard* does not allow to input any accentuated char.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17021]])

- Other [open tickets for Tails 4.0](https://redmine.tails.boum.org/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=279)

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# How to test Tails 4.0~rc1?

We will provide security upgrades for Tails 4.0~rc1 like we do for regular
versions of Tails.

Keep in mind that this is a test image. We tested that it is not broken in
obvious ways, but it might still contain undiscovered issues.

Please, report any new problem to <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list).

# Get Tails 4.0~rc1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.0~beta1 and 4.0~beta2.

- You can do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

## To download 4.0~rc1

### Direct download

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.img">For USB sticks (USB image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.img.sig]])

  - <a class="use-mirror-pool" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.iso">For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)</a>
    ([[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.iso.sig]])

### BitTorrent download

  - [For USB sticks (USB image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.img.torrent)

  - [For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)](https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-amd64-4.0~rc1.iso.torrent)

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win/usb]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac/usb]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux/usb]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.0 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 22.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.0-rc1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
