[[!meta title="Call for testing: 3.0~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 21 May 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming
version 3.0 is out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what
you think about it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 3.0~rc1?

Tails 3.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 9
(Stretch). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

Changes since Tails 3.0~beta4 include:

* Important security fixes!

* Upgrade to current Debian 9 (Stretch).

* Upgrade tor to 0.3.0.7-1.

* Upgrade Tor Browser to 7.0a4.

* Migrate from Icedove to Thunderbird (only cosmetic).

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

# How to test Tails 3.0~rc1?

**We will provide security updates for Tails 3.0~rc1**, just like we do
for stable versions of Tails.

But **keep in mind that this is a test image**. We tested that it is
not broken in obvious ways, but it might still contain
undiscovered issues.

But test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

Get Tails 3.0~rc1
-------------------

To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 3.0~beta4 to 3.0~rc1.

If you cannot do an automatic upgrade, you can install 3.0~rc1 by
following our usual [[installation instructions|install]], skipping
the **Download and verify** step.

<a class="download-file use-mirror-pool" href="">Tails 3.0~rc1 ISO image</a>
<span class="openpgp-small-link">[[OpenPGP signature|torrents/files/tails-amd64-3.0~rc1.iso.sig]]</span>
<br/>
<a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 3.0~rc1 torrent</a>

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 3.0~rc1
=========================

* The documentation has only been partially updated so far.

* The graphical interface fails to start on some Intel
  graphics adapters. If this happens to you:
  1. Add the `xorg-driver=intel` option in the
     [[boot menu|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]].
  2. If this fixes the problem, report to to <tails-testers@boum.org>
     the output of the following commands:
     
         lspci -v
         lspci -mn
     
     … so we get the identifier of your graphics adapter and can have
     this fix applied automatically in the next Tails 3.0 pre-release.
  3. If this does not fix the problem, try Troubleshooting Mode and
     report the problem to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Include the exact
     model of your Intel graphics adapter.

* There is no <span class="guilabel">Read-Only</span> feature for the
  persistent volume anymore; it is not clear yet whether it will be
  re-introduced in time for Tails 3.0 final ([[!tails_ticket 12093]]).

* The persistent Tor Browser bookmarks feature is broken if you enable
  it for the first time in Tails 3.0~rc1; any persistent bookmarks
  from before will still work.

  You can workaround this as follows, after you start Tails the first
  time with Browser bookmarks persistence enabled:

  1. Start Tor Browser and let it load
  2. Close Tor Browser
  3. Run this in a Terminal:

         cp /home/amnesia/.tor-browser/profile.default/places.sqlite \
            /home/amnesia/.mozilla/firefox/bookmarks/places.sqlite
         rm /home/amnesia/.tor-browser/profile.default/places.sqlite*
         ln -s /home/amnesia/.mozilla/firefox/bookmarks/places.sqlite \
               /home/amnesia/.tor-browser/profile.default/places.sqlite

* [[!tails_ticket 12580 desc="Thunderbird email client fails to load for some
  users"]]. You can fix this by creating a file called *.migrated* in
  the folder of your Thunderbird profile. To do so, run this command in a
  Terminal:

      touch /home/amnesia/.thunderbird/profile.default/.migrated

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0~rc1](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=242)

* [Open tickets for Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?per_page=100&query_id=198)

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

# What's coming up?

We will likely publish the first release candidate for Tails 3.0
around May 19.

Tails 3.0 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.0-rc1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
