[[!meta title="Call for testing: 1.3~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="2015-02-12 12:00:00"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version 1.3 is
out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 1.3~rc1?
==========================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

1. Either try the <a href="#automatic_upgrade">automatic upgrade</a>, or
   download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/alpha/tails-i386-1.3~rc1/tails-i386-1.3~rc1.iso">Tails 1.3~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-1.3~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 1.3~rc1 signature</a>

1. [[Verify the ISO image|download#verify]].

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<div id="automatic_upgrade"></a>

How to automatically upgrade from 1.2.3?
========================================

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.2.3 to Tails 1.3~rc1.

1. Start Tails 1.2.3 from a USB stick or SD card (installed by the
   Tails Installer), and
   [[set an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel
   and start the upgrade:

       echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release && \
            tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

1. Once the upgrade has been installed, restart Tails and look at
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">System</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to confirm that the running system is Tails 1.3~rc1.

What's new since 1.2.3?
=======================

Notable changes since Tails 1.2.3 include:

  * Major new features
    - Distribute a hybrid ISO image again: no need for anyone to
      manually run `isohybrid` anymore! ([[!tails_ticket 8510]])
    - Confine the Tor Browser using AppArmor to protect against some
      types of attack. [Learn more](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/wiki/src/doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser.mdwn?h=testing)
      about how this will affect your usage of Tails.
      ([[!tails_ticket 5525]])
    - Install the Electrum bitcoin client, and allow users
      to persist their wallet. ([[!tails_ticket 6739]])

  * Minor improvements
    - Support obfs4 Tor bridges ([[!tails_ticket 7980]])
    - Touchpad: enable tap-to-click, 2-fingers scrolling, and disable
      while typing. ([[!tails_ticket 7779]])
    - Support Vietnamese input in IBus. ([[!tails_ticket 7999]])
    - Improve support for OpenPGP smartcards. ([[!tails_ticket 6241]])

See the <a href="https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=ca9705874a4380db51a85aaddf5309580fd3e04e">online
Changelog</a> for technical details.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

# Known issues in 1.3~rc1

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]

# Required persistent configuration updates

If you have the Pidgin persistence preset enabled, then you perform
the following manual steps to make it open links in the Tor Browser:

* Start Tails
* Enable persistence without the read-only option
* Start Pidgin
* Choose
  <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
    <span class="guimenuitem">Preferences</span>
  </span>
* Click the <span class="guilabel">Browser</span> tab
* Type `/usr/local/bin/tor-browser %s` in the <span
  class="guilabel">Manual</span> field
* Click the <span class="button">Close</span> button
