[[!meta title="Call for testing: 0.22.1~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 11 Jan 2014 00:18:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming version
0.22.1 is out. Please test it and see if it works for you.

[[!toc levels=1]]

How to test Tails 0.22.1~rc1?
=============================

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have made sure
   that it is not broken in an obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

2. Either try the <a href="#automatic_upgrade">automatic upgrade</a>, or
   download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 0.22.1~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-0.22.1~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 0.22.1~rc1 signature</a>

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues
   of this release</a> and the list of [[longstanding known
   issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report to
us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you check that it is not a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<div id="automatic_upgrade"></a>

How automatically upgrade from 0.22?
====================================

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 0.22 to Tails 0.22.1~rc1.

1. Start Tails 0.22 and [[set an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

2. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to select the "alpha" upgrade channel:
   <pre><code>echo TAILS_CHANNEL=\"alpha\" >> /etc/os-release</code></pre>

3. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to install the latest version of <span
   class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>:

       echo "deb http://deb.tails.boum.org/ 0.22.1-rc1 main" \
           > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tails-0.22-rc1.list && \
           sed -i -e '/tor-0.2.4.x-squeeze/ d' \
          /etc/apt/sources.list.d/torproject.list &&
           apt-get update && \
           apt-get install tails-iuk

4. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
    <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;&#x25B8;
    <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;&#x25B8;
    <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Upgrader</span>
  </span>
  to start <span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>.

5. Accept <span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>&#39;s proposal
to upgrade to Tails 0.22.1~rc1.

6. Wait while the upgrade is downloaded and applied.

7. Restart the system when advised to do so.

8. Once the system is restarted, choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">System</span>&nbsp;&#x25B8;
  <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
</span>
to confirm that the running system is now Tails 0.22.1~rc1.

What's new since 0.22?
======================

- Security fixes
  - Update NSS to 3.14.5-1~bpo60+1.

- Major improvements
  - Check for upgrades availability using Tails Upgrader, and propose to apply an incremental upgrade whenever possible.
  - Install Linux 3.12 (3.12.6-2).

- Bugfixes
  - Fix the keybindings problem introduced in 0.22.
  - Fix the Unsafe Browser problem introduced in 0.22.
  - Use IE's icon in Windows camouflage mode.
  - Handle some corner cases better in Tails Installer.

- Minor improvements
  - Update Tor Browser to 24.2.0esr-1+tails1.
  - Update Torbutton to 1.6.5.3.
  - Do not start Tor Browser automatically, but notify when Tor is ready.
  - Import latest Tor Browser prefs.
  - Many user interface improvements in Tails Upgrader.

See the <a href="https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=stable">online
Changelog</a> for technical details.

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 0.22.1~rc1
==========================

- The memory erasure on shutdown [[!tails_ticket 6460 desc="does not work on
  some hardware"]].
