[[!meta title="Call for testing: incremental upgrades"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 08 Dec 2013 16:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

You can help Tails! [[Incremental
upgrades|contribute/design/incremental_upgrades]] are ready for
testing. This feature allows you to upgrade a running Tails without
downloading an ISO, without burning a DVD, and without a second USB
stick or SD card. Please try it and see if all works for you.

If you have security auditing skills, you are more than welcome to
review our [[design|contribute/design/incremental_upgrades]] and
[[code|contribute/design/incremental_upgrades#code]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# How to test incremental upgrades?

These instructions allow you to incrementally upgrade from Tails
0.22~rc1 or 0.22~rc2 to Tails 0.22 final.

**Keep in mind that this is the first broad call for testing of Tails
incremental upgrades**. It might have undiscovered issues.

Below, we assume that you have installed [[Tails
0.22~rc1|news/test_0.22-rc1]] **with <span class="application">Tails
Installer</span>** onto a USB stick or SD card.

If you have applied the incremental upgrade to Tails 0.22~rc2, skip to
[[the instructions for RC2
users|news/test_incremental_upgrades#from-rc1-or-rc2]]. Else, read on.

## From Tails 0.22~rc1

These steps allow you to incrementally upgrade from Tails 0.22~rc1 to
Tails 0.22.

1. Start Tails 0.22~rc1 and [[set an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to correct the firewall:

       sed -i -e \
          's/tails-iuk-get-target-file/(tails-iuk-get-target-file tails-upgrade-frontend)/' \
          /etc/ferm/ferm.conf && \
       /usr/sbin/ferm /etc/ferm/ferm.conf

1. Follow the [[next
   steps|news/test_incremental_upgrades#from-rc1-or-rc2]].

<a id="from-rc1-or-rc2">

## From Tails 0.22~rc1 or 0.22~rc2

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Upgrader</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>.

1. Accept <span class="application">Tails Upgrader</span>'s proposal
   to upgrade to Tails 0.22.

1. Wait while the upgrade is downloaded and applied.

1. Restart the system when advised to do so.

1. Once the system is restarted, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">System</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">About Tails</span>
   </span>
   to confirm that the running system is now Tails 0.22.

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please [[report
to us|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]! Bonus points if you check that
it is not a [[known issue of incremental
upgrades|test_incremental_upgrades#known_issues]] or a [[longstanding
known issue|support/known_issues]].

<a id="known_issues">

# Known issues

Known issues of incremental upgrades are [tracked in
Redmine](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?query_id=126).
