[[!meta title="Call for testing: 2.0~rc1"]]

[[!meta date="Mon, 12 Jan 2016 17:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]

[[!tag announce]]

You can help Tails! The first release candidate for the upcoming
version 2.0 is out. We are very excited and cannot wait to hear what
you think about it :)

[[!toc levels=1]]

# What's new in 2.0?

Tails 2.0 will be the first version of Tails based on Debian 8
(Jessie). As such, it upgrades essentially all included software.

The most noticeable change is probably the move to GNOME Shell,
configured in *Classic mode*. This desktop environment provides a modern
and actively developed replacement for the aging GNOME "Flashback".
GNOME Shell also paves the way for better supporting touchscreens in
the future.

Under the hood, an amazing amount of code was ported to more modern
technologies. This, in turn, allowed us to do lots of small changes
all around the place, that will make the Tails experience both
safer, and more pleasant. For example, all custom system services
are harder to exploit thanks to the use of Linux namespaces, set up by
systemd. And the way Tails tells the user that "Tor is ready" is now
more accurate.

But really, there are simply too many changes to describe them all
here, so try Tails 2.0~rc1 yourself!

Technical details of all the changes are listed in the
[Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=devel).

There is one piece of bad news, that makes us a bit sad, though: we
had to remove the Windows camouflage feature, since our call for help
to port it to GNOME Shell (issued in January, 2015) was unsuccessful.

# What's new since Tails 2.0~beta1?

## New features

* Fix the passphrase strength indicator of GNOME Disks.

## Upgrades and changes

* Remove Claws Mail: Icedove is now the default email client.
* Upgrade Tor Browser to 5.5a6.
* Install xserver-xorg-video-intel from Jessie Backports (currently:
  2.99.917-2~bpo8+1). This adds support for recent chips such as
  Intel Broadwell's HD Graphics.

## Fixed problems

* Stop offering the option to open downloaded files with external
* applications in Tor Browser (Closes: #9285). Our AppArmor confinement was
* blocking most such actions anyway, resulting in poor UX.

* Fix the performance issue of Tails Upgrader that made automatic upgrades
* very slow to apply.

* Fix Electrum by installing the version from Debian testing.

* Restore default file associations.

* Repair Dotfiles persistence feature.

* Fix ability to reconfigure an existing persistent storage.

* Associate armored OpenPGP public keys named `*.key` with Seahorse.

* Update the list of enabled GNOME Shell extensions, which might fix
* the "GNOME Shell sometimes leaves Classic mode" bug seen in 2.0~beta1:

# How to test Tails 2.0~rc1?

1. **Keep in mind that this is a test image.** We have ensured
   that it is not broken in any obvious way, but it might still contain
   undiscovered issues.

2. Download the ISO image and its signature:

   <a class="download-file" href="" >Tails 2.0~rc1 ISO image</a>

   <a class="download-signature"
   href="https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-2.0~rc1.iso.sig">Tails 2.0~rc1 signature</a>

   Or try the automatic upgrade from
   2.0~beta1 even though it is very slow.
   Note that there is no automatic upgrade from 1.8.2 to this release.

1. Verify the ISO image.

1. Have a look at the list of <a href="#known_issues">known issues of
   this release</a> and the list of
   [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

1. Test wildly!

If you find anything that is not working as it should, please report to
us on <tails-testers@boum.org>.

Bonus points if you first check if it is a
<a href="#known_issues">known issue of this release</a> or a
[[longstanding known issue|support/known_issues]].

<a id="known_issues"></a>

Known issues in 2.0~rc1
=======================

* The documentation was not updated yet.

* Tor Browser does not support MPEG-4 video streaming in Tails 2.0 and
  newer ([[!tails_ticket 10835]]). Instead, in some cases you can
  download them and play them with the video player included in Tails.
  On the other hand, web sites that propose WebM video streaming
  work fine.

* Sometimes, some of the icons located on the top right corner of the
  screen are not displayed entirely, or at all. For example, the Vidalia
  icon, or the icon that allows to change to another keyboard layout,
  may be hidden. Other information, such as the clock, may not
  be visible. Restarting Tails often solves this problem.
  ([[!tails_ticket 10576]] and [[!tails_ticket 10807]])

* Network interfaces sometimes remain turned off ([[!tails_ticket 9012]]).
  If this happens to you, please [[report the error|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]
  so we can get enough debugging information to fix it.

* Graphics display operations are slow on computers with graphics
  adapters of the Nvidia [[!wikipedia GeForce 900 series]], such as the
  GeForce GTX 960.

* It is not possible to add and configure printers
  ([[!tails_ticket 10893]]).

* [[Longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]]
