[[!meta date="Wed, 05 Feb 2014 10:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.22.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.22.1, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.22]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Security fixes
  - Upgrade the web browser to 24.3.0esr, that fixes a few serious
    security issues.
  - Upgrade the system NSS to 3.14.5, that fixes a few serious
    security issues.
  - Workaround a browser size fingerprinting issue by using small
    icons in the web browser's navigation toolbar.
  - Upgrade Pidgin to 2.10.8, that fixes a number of serious
    security issues.

* Major improvements
  - Check for upgrades availability using Tails Upgrader, and propose
    to apply an incremental upgrade whenever possible.
  - Install Linux 3.12 (3.12.6-2).

* Bugfixes
  - Fix the keybindings problem introduced in 0.22.
  - Fix the Unsafe Browser problem introduced in 0.22.
  - Use IE's icon in Windows camouflage mode.
  - Handle some corner cases better in Tails Installer.
  - Use the correct browser homepage in Spanish locales.

* Minor improvements
  - Update Torbutton to 1.6.5.3.
  - Do not start Tor Browser automatically, but notify when Tor
    is ready.
  - Import latest Tor Browser prefs.
  - Many user interface improvements in Tails Upgrader.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* The memory erasure on shutdown [[!tails_ticket 6460 desc="does not
  work on some hardware"]].
* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
March 18.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
