[[!meta title="Tails 4.14 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 15 Dec 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.13]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Add support for the Ledger hardware wallets in *Electrum*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15353]])

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.7](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1007).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.5.1](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.5.1/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.9. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Remove the *Unifont* font. ([[!tails_mr 263]])
 
<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix Additional Software by updating the APT key for
  `deb.torproject.org`. ([[!tails_ticket 18042]])

- Fix changing the administration password stored in the Persistent
  Storage. ([[!tails_ticket 18018]])

- Fix opening the Persistent Storage of another Tails USB stick in
  the *Files* browser. ([[!tails_ticket 18050]])

- Restore automatically a *GnuPG* public keyring from its backup when it
  gets corrupt. ([[!tails_ticket 17807]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.14</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.14.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.14 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.15 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.14">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
