[[!meta title="Tails 4.5 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 07 Apr 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.4.1]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# New features

## Secure Boot

Tails now starts on computers with Secure Boot enabled.

If your Mac displays the following error:

<pre>Security settings do not allow this Mac to use an external startup disk.</pre>

<p>Then you have to [[change the settings of the <em>Startup Security
Utility</em>|install/mac/usb#startup-security]] of your Mac to authorize
starting from Tails.</p>

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.0.9](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-909).

  This update fixes several [[!mfsa 2020-13 desc="vulnerabilities"]] in
  *Firefox*, including [[!mfsa 2020-11 desc="some critical ones"]].

  Mozilla is aware of targeted attacks in the wild abusing these
  vulnerabilities.

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.5

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.5.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.5 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.6 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 5.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.5">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
