[[!meta date="Tue Sep 2 12:34:56 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.1.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.1.1, is out.

All users must [[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.1]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade the web browser to 24.8.0esr-0+tails1~bpo70+1
      (Firefox 24.8.0esr + Iceweasel patches + Torbrowser patches).
    - Add an I2P boot parameter. Without adding "i2p" to the kernel
      command line, I2P will not be accessible for the Live user. I2P
      was also upgraded to 0.9.14.1-1~deb7u+1, and stricter firewall
      rules are applied to it, among other security enhancements.
    - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.4.23-2~d70.wheezy+1 (fixes CVE-2014-5117).
    - Upgrade Linux to 3.14.15-2 (fixes CVE-2014-3534, CVE-2014-4667
      and CVE-2014-4943).
    - Prevent dhclient from sending the hostname over the network
      ([[!tails_ticket 7688]]).
    - Override the hostname provided by the DHCP server ([[!tails_ticket 7769]]).

  * Bugfixes
    - Don't ship OpenJDK 6: I2P prefers v7, and we don't need both
      ([[!tails_ticket 7807]]).
    - Prevent Tails Installer from updating the system partition
      properties on MBR partitions ([[!tails_ticket 7716]]).

  * Minor improvements
    - Upgrade to Torbutton 1.6.12.1.
    - Install gnome-user-guide ([[!tails_ticket 7618]]).
    - Install cups-pk-helper ([[!tails_ticket 7636]]).
    - Update the SquashFS sort file, which should speed up boot from
      DVD ([[!tails_ticket 6372]]).
    - Compress the SquashFS more aggressively ([[!tails_ticket 7706]]) which
      should make the Tails ISO image smaller.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

[[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
October 14.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
