[[!meta date="Sat, 18 May 2013 11:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.18 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.18, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* New features
  - Support obfs3 bridges.
  - Automatically [[install a custom list of additional packages|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#additional_software]]
    chosen by the user at the beginning of every working session, and upgrade
    them once a network connection is established (technology preview).

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade to Iceweasel 17.0.6esr-0+tails1~bpo60+1.
  - Update Torbrowser patches to current maint-2.4 branch (567682b).
  - Torbutton 1.5.2, and various prefs hacks to fix breakage.
  - HTTPS Everywhere 3.2
  - NoScript 2.6.6.1-1
  - Isolate DOM storage to first party URI, and enable DOM storage.
  - Isolate the image cache per url bar domain.
  - Update prefs to match the TBB's, fix bugs, and take advantage of
    the latest Torbrowser patches.
  - Make prefs organization closer to the TBB's, and generally clean
    them up.

* Bugfixes
  - Linux 3.2.41-2+deb7u2.
  - All Iceweasel prefs we set are now applied.
  - Bring back support for proxies of type other than obfsproxy.

* Minor improvements
  - Set `kernel.dmesg_restrict=1`, and make `/proc/<pid>/` invisible
    and restricted for other users. It makes it slightly harder for an
    attacker to gather information that may allow them to
    escalate privileges.
  - Install gnome-screenshot.
  - Add a *About Tails* launcher in the *System* menu.
  - Install GNOME accessibility themes.
  - Use *Getting started...* as the homepage for the Tails
    documentation button.
  - Disable audio preview in Nautilus.

* Localization: many translation updates all over the place.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=0.18)
for technical details.

# Known issue

The web browser default search engine is Google, instead of the
intended localized Startpage. You may select *Startpage HTTPS* in the
search engine menu next to the Google icon.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for June 27.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], there are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
