[[!meta date="Tue Mar 8 12:34:56 2016"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.0.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- Add support for viewing DVDs with DRM protection. ([[!tails_ticket 7674]])

## Upgrades and changes

- Replace *Vidalia*, which has been unmaintained for years, with:
  - a system status icon indicating whether Tails is connected to Tor or not,
  - [[*Onion Circuits*|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_status]] to display a list of the current Tor circuits and connections.

[[!img version_2.2/onion_circuits.png alt="Tor Status extension clicked in the top bar and Onion Circuits window open" link="no"]]

- Automatically save the database of *KeePassX* after every change to prevent
  data loss when shutting down. ([[!tails_ticket 11147]])

- Update *Tor Browser* to 5.5.3.
  - Improve Japanese-style glyph display.

- Upgrade *I2P* to [0.9.24](https://geti2p.net/en/blog/post/2016/01/27/0.9.24-Release).

- Disable the <span class="keycap">Alt + Shift</span> and
  <span class="keycap">Left Shift + Right Shift</span> keyboard
  shortcuts that used to switch to the next keyboard layout.
  You can still use <span class="keycap">Meta + Space</span> to change
  keyboard layout. ([[!tails_ticket 11042]])

## Fixed problems

- Fix **optional PGP key** feature of *WhisperBack*. ([[!tails_ticket 11033]])

- Fix saving of *WhisperBack* report to a file when offline. ([[!tails_ticket 11133]])

- Make Git verify the integrity of transferred objects. ([[!tails_ticket 11107]])

For more details, see also our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

* While there is an automatic upgrade from Tails 2.2~rc1 to 2.2, it
  will not be detected by default since Tails 2.2~rc1 think it already
  is 2.2 (see [[the 2.2~rc1 announcement|test_2.2-rc1]]). To fix this,
  run the following command:

      sudo sed -i 's/^TAILS_VERSION_ID="2.2"$/TAILS_VERSION_ID="2.2~rc1"/' \
          /etc/os-release && \
      tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper

* See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Install or upgrade

To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

An automatic upgrade is available from 2.0.1 to 2.2.

If it is impossible to automatically upgrade your Tails, read our
[[upgrade instructions|upgrade]].

If your Tails fails to start after an automatic upgrade, please [[try to
do a manual upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade#manual]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 19.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|contribute/how/donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|contribute/talk]]!
