[[!meta date="Mon, 18 Sep 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.13 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.13, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Use white-list/principle of least privilege approach for local services.
  Only users that need a certain local (i.e. hosted on loopback) service
  (according to our use cases) are granted access to it by our firewall;
  all other users are denied access.

* Allow to modify language and layout in the "Advanced options" screen
  of the greeter.

* Enable four workspaces in the Windows XP camouflage. This allows
  users to quickly switch to a more innocent looking workspace in case
  they are working on sensitive data and attract unwanted attention.
  The workspace switcher applet isn't there, though, since there's no
  such thing in Windows XP, so switching is only possible via keyboard
  shortcuts.

* Claws Mail now saves local/POP emails in its dot-directory by default
  instead of the non-persistent `~/Mail` directory. *Users who are already
  using persistence for Claws will have to perform this change manually.*

* Add support for wireless regulation.

* Hide the *TailsData* partition in desktop applications.

* Tor
  - Upgrade to 0.2.2.39.

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade iceweasel to 10.0.7esr-2 (Extended Support Release).

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux to 3.2.23-1.

* Software
  - Upgrade I2P to version 0.9.1.
  - Install GNOME System Monitor.
  - Upgrade WhisperBack to 1.6, with many UI improvements and new translations.

* Ship a first version of the incremental update system. Updates are not
  currently triggered automatically, but this will allow tests to be done
  on larger scales.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.13)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
