[[!meta date="Mon, 12 Jun 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.12 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.12, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* The Unsafe Web Browser, which has direct access to the Internet and
  can be used to login to captive portals usually found at libraries,
  Internet cafes and when using other publicly available Internet
  connections.

* Windows camouflage can now be enabled via a check box in Tails
  Greeter. Tails' user interface is unfamiliar to most, which may
  attract unwanted attention when used in public places. This option
  makes Tails look more like Microsoft Windows XP in order to raise
  less suspicion.

* Tor
  - Upgrade to 0.2.2.37-1~~squeeze+1.

* iceweasel
  - Upgrade iceweasel to 10.0.5esr-1 (Extended Support Release).
  - Add a bookmark for the offline Tails documentation.

* Internationalization:
  - The Tails website and documentation now has a (partial) Portuguese
    translation.

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux to 3.2.20-1 (linux-image-3.2.0-2-amd64).

* Software
  - Do not install cryptkeeper anymore. See [[!tails_ticket 5864]]
    for reason. Users of cryptkeeper are encouraged to migrate
    built-in [[doc/first_steps/persistence]] with the following
    one-time migration procedure:
	1. set an [[doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]]
	   when booting Tails
	2. temporarily install cryptkeeper via `sudo apt-get update; sudo
       apt-get install --yes cryptkeeper`
	3. open your cryptkeeper (EncFS] volume and move its contents to
	   the `Persistence` folder provided by Tails' built-in persistence
  - Install mousetweaks. This is needed to use the mouse accessibility
    settings in System -> Preferences -> Mouse -> Accessibility.
  - Upgrade I2P to version 0.9.
  - Don't install GParted. GNOME Disk Utility has been on par with
    GParted since Squeeze was released.
  - Upgrade MAT, the metadata anonymisation toolkit, 0.3.2-1~bpo60+1.

* Miscellaneous
  - Set Tails specific syslinux and plymouth themes.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.12)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# A glimpse towards the future

Where do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
