[[!meta date="Tue, 02 Aug 2016 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.5 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.4]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features


## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 6.0.3, based on *Firefox* 45.3.

- Upgrade *Icedove* to 45.1. ([[!tails_ticket 11530]])

## Fixed problems

- The automatic account configuration of *Icedove* used to freeze when
  connecting to some email providers. ([[!tails_ticket 11486]])

- In some cases sending an email with *Icedove* used to result in the
  error: "The message could not be sent using Outgoing server (SMTP)
  mail.riseup.net for an unknown reason." ([[!tails_ticket 10933]])

- A spurious error message used to sometimes appear when creating an
  account in *Icedove* and providing its password.
  ([[!tails_ticket 11550]])

- Fix some time synchronization problems, by replacing obsolete and
  unreliable servers, and decreasing a timeout. ([[!tails_ticket 11577]])

- [[KVM virtual machines|doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virt-manager]]
  with QXL video: vastly improve graphics performance and fix visual
  artifacts in *Tor Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket 11500]],
  [[!tails_ticket 11489]])

For more details, read our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.5

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.4 to 2.5.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.5.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.6 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for September 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
