[[!meta date="Fri, 22 Oct 2010 02:02:02 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.6, is out.

Please note Tails released images are now signed using a new
[[OpenPGP key|doc/about/openpgp_keys]].

Notable changes include:

- Tor 0.2.1.26
- Vidalia 0.2.10
- New Linux kernel (2.6.32) supports a lot more hardware.
- Newly supported wireless chipsets include RT2860, RTL8192,
  BCM4306/3, BCM4311, BCM4312, BCM4318.
- New bundled software: vector-based drawing (Inkscape), .po files
  editor (Poedit), [[!wikipedia Shamir's_Secret_Sharing]]
  (gfshare and ssss).
- New GnuPG package brings saner defaults and hkps:// support.
  It is now pre-configured to use a hkps:// server over Tor.
- Use (authenticated) HTP instead of
  NTP. Tor and Vidalia are now started only
  once HTP is done. Desktop notifications explain what's happening.
- Warn the user when T(A)ILS is running inside a virtual machine.
- Add a Nautilus shortcut to securely erase free space in a partition.
- Preliminary Monkeysphere support: Iceweasel extension is installed,
  MSVA is configured to use a hkps:// keyserver.
- WhisperBack 1.3 lets the user optionally provide an email address
  and OpenPGP key.

A few bugs were fixed, including:

- IPv6 communication with the outside is now really forbidden.
- Torbutton 1.2.5-3 fixes the [[exposure of a rare
  User-Agent|security/Iceweasel_exposes_a_rare_User-Agent]].
- Autostart Iceweasel with the GNOME session to workaround the
  "Iceweasel first page is not loaded" bug.
- The DNS cache now forgets automapped .onion's on Tor restart.

... and of course the usual bunch of software security updates.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.6)
for details.

Were do we go from here?

1. This release is likely to be the last one to be based on Debian
   Lenny. Further development will be based on the (to be released
   soon) next Debian stable release: Squeeze.
2. Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to learn more about our
   plans.

[[Download it, seed it!|install]]
