[[!meta title="Tails 4.11 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 22 Sep 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.10]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# New features

- We added a new feature of the Persistent Storage to save the settings
  from the Welcome Screen: language, keyboard, and additional settings.

  To restore your settings when starting Tails, unlock your Persistent Storage
  in the Welcome Screen.

  [[!img version_4.11/welcome_screen.png link="no" alt="new Welcome Screen feature in the Persistent Storage settings"]]

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-100).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.12](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/68.12.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.7.17. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Configure *KeePassXC* to use the new default location *Passwords.kdbx*. ([[!tails_ticket 17286]])

- Update <span class="code">python3-trezor</span> to 0.11.6 to add
  compatibility with the new Trezor Model T.

# Fixed problems

- Disable the feature to **Turn on Wi-Fi Hotspot** in the Wi-Fi settings
  because it doesn't work in Tails. ([[!tails_ticket 17887]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.11

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.11.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.11 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.12 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 20.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.11">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
