[[!meta date="Wed, 29 Apr 2014 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.0 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.0, is out.

All users must [[upgrade|doc/upgrade]] as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.23]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Introduction

We are especially proud to present you Tails 1.0!

Version 1.0 is often an [[!wikipedia Version_number#Version_1.0_as_a_milestone
desc="important milestone"]] that denotes the maturity of a free software
project. The first public version of what would become Tails was released on
June 23 2009, when it was called [[Amnesia|version_0.2]]. That was almost five
years ago. Tails 1.0 marks the 36th stable release since then.

## Achievements

We have been working since then on the many features we think
are essential both in terms of security and usability:

  - USB installer
  - [[automatic upgrades|doc/upgrade]]
  - [[persistence|doc/first_steps/persistence]]
  - [[support for Tor bridges|doc/first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]] and
    other [[special Tor
    configuration|doc/first_steps/startup_options#additional]]
  - [[MAC address spoofing|doc/first_steps/startup_options/mac_spoofing]]
  - [[extensive and translated documentation|doc]]
  - and [[many more...|doc/about/features]]

But this has been a continuous work over the past years, and you will see that
1.0 itself does not bring a lot of effective changes for the user. Still, to mark
the occasion, we integrated our [[new logo|news/and_the_winner_is]] on the
website and the boot menu.

## Thank you

The maturity of Tails is also reflected in:

  - Its wide adoption. In the last 18 months, the approximate number of Tails
    users has been multiplied by 4.
  - All the good things said about Tails by reputed people and organisations
    such as [Freedom of the Press
    Foundation](https://pressfreedomfoundation.org/blog/2014/04/help-support-little-known-privacy-tool-has-been-critical-journalists-reporting-nsa),
    [Bruce
    Schneier](http://boingboing.net/2013/12/15/bruce-schneier-and-eben-moglen-2.html),
    [Reporters Without
    Borders](https://www.wefightcensorship.org/article/tails-amnesic-incognito-live-systemhtml.html),
    [the NSA](http://www.theguardian.com/world/interactive/2013/oct/04/tor-high-secure-internet-anonymity),
    and [[many more...|press]]

## Future

Version 1.0 does not mean that we will stop adding new features and improving
Tails. Briefly, here are our plans for the future:

- [Tails 1.1](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/roadmap#Tails_1.1),
  due in June 2014, will be based on Debian 7 (Wheezy) and will bring many new
  versions of the software included in Tails.

- [Tails 2.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/roadmap#Tails_2.0)
  will focus on sustainability and maintainability. Most of that work aims at
  reducing the workload of creating new versions of Tails through infrastructure
  improvements and automated testing. Our objective is to be able to release
  same-day security updates.

- [Tails 3.0](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/roadmap#Tails_3.0)
  will focus on changes in the internals of Tails to make it more secure. That
  includes sandboxing critical applications and software hardening.

And of course, new contributors with all kinds of skills are always welcome.
There is surely [[something **you** can do|contribute]] to make Tails better.

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Security fixes
  - Upgrade the web browser to 24.5.0esr-0+tails1~bpo60+1
    (Firefox 24.5.0esr + Iceweasel patches + Torbrowser patches).
  - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.4.21-1+tails1~d60.squeeze+1:
    * Based on 0.2.4.21-1~d60.squeeze+1.
    * Backport the fix for [[!tor_bug 11464]]. It adds client-side
      blacklists for all Tor directory authority keys that was
      vulnerable to Heartbleed.  This protects clients in case
      attackers were able to compromise a majority of the authority
      signing and identity keys.

* Bugfixes
  - Disable inbound I2P connections. Tails already restricts incoming
    connections, but this change tells I2P about it.
  - Fix link to the system requirements documentation page in the Tails
    Upgrader error shown when too little RAM is available.

* Minor improvements
  - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.12-2~deb6u+1.
  - Import TorBrowser profile. This was forgotten in Tails 0.23 and even
    though we didn't explicitly set those preferences in that release
    they defaulted to the same values. This future-proofs us in case the
    defaults would ever change.
  - Import new custom version of Tor Launcher:
    * Based on upstream Tor Launcher 0.2.5.3.
    * Improve how Tor Launcher handles incomplete translation.
      ([[!tor_bug 11483]]; more future-proof fix for
      [[!tails_ticket 6885]])
    * Remove the bridge settings prompt. ([[!tor_bug 11482]]; closes
      [[!tails_ticket 6934]])
    * Always show bridge help button. ([[!tor_bug 11484]])
  - Integrate the new Tails logo into various places:
    * The website
    * The boot splash
    * The "About Tails" dialog

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
June 10.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
