[[!meta date="Tue, 07 Jun 2016 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.4 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.3]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- We enabled the automatic account configuration of *Icedove* which
  discovers the correct parameters to connect to your email provider
  based on your email address. We improved it to rely only on secure
  protocol and we are working on sharing these improvements with Mozilla
  so that users of *Thunderbird* outside Tails can benefit from them as well.

  [[!img autoconfig.png link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to
  [6.0.1](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-browser-601-released), based
  on Firefox 45.

- Remove the preconfigured `#tails` IRC channel. [[Join us on XMPP
  instead!|support/chat]]

- Always display minimize and maximize buttons in titlebars.
  ([[!tails_ticket 11270]])

- Remove *GNOME Tweak Tool* and *hledger*. You can add them back using
  the [[*Additional software
  packages*|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#additional_software]]
  persistence feature.

- Use secure HKPS OpenPGP key server in *Enigmail*.

- Harden our firewall by rejecting `RELATED` packets and restricting Tor
  to only send `NEW` TCP `syn` packets. ([[!tails_ticket 11391]])

- Harden our kernel by:
  * Setting various security-related kernel options: `slab_nomerge slub_debug=FZ
    mce=0 vsyscall=none`. ([[!tails_ticket 11143]])
  * Removing the <span class="filename">.map</span> files of the kernel.
    ([[!tails_ticket  10951]])

## Fixed problems

- Update the *DRM* and *Mesa* graphical libraries. This should fix
  recent problems with starting Tails on some hardware. ([[!tails_ticket 11303]])

- Some printers that stopped working in Tails 2.0 should work again.
  ([[!tails_ticket 10965]])

- Enable Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery for IPv4. This should
  make the connections to `obfs4` Tor bridges more reliable. ([[!tails_ticket 9268]])

- Remove our custom ciphers and MACs settings for SSH. This should fix
  connectivity issues with other distributions such as OpenBSD.
  ([[!tails_ticket 7315]])

- Fix the translations of *Tails Upgrader*. ([[!tails_ticket 10221]])

- Fix displaying the details of a circuit in *Onion Circuits* when using
  Tor bridges. ([[!tails_ticket 11195]])

For more details, read our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

- The automatic account configuration of *Icedove* freezes when
  connecting to some email providers. ([[!tails_ticket 11486]])

- In some cases sending an email with Icedove results in the error: "The
  message could not be sent using Outgoing server (SMTP)
  mail.riseup.net for an unknown reason." When this happens, simply
  click "Ok" and try again and it should work. ([[!tails_ticket 10933]])

- The update of the *Mesa* graphical library introduce new problems at
  least on AMD HD 7770 and Nvidia GT 930M.

- In the PDF Viewer the Download button doesn't work. This can be
  worked around by right-clicking anywhere in the document and
  selecting *Save Page As*.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.4

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.3 to 2.4.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.4.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for August 2.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
