[[!meta date="Tue, 11 Aug 2015 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.5 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.5, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.4.1]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - **Disable access to the local network** in the *Tor Browser*. You
    should now use the *Unsafe Browser* to access the local network.

## Upgrades and changes

  - Install *Tor Browser* 5.0 (based on Firefox 38esr).
  - Install a *32-bit GRUB EFI boot loader*. Tails should now start on
    some tablets with Intel Bay Trail processors among others.
  - Let the user know when *Tails Installer* has rejected a device
    because it is too small.

There are numerous other changes that might not be apparent in the daily
operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the changes
are listed in the [Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

## Fixed problems

  - Our *AppArmor* setup has been audited and improved in various ways
    which should harden the system.
  - The network should now be properly disabled when *MAC address
    spoofing* fails.

There are numerous other changes that might not be apparent in the daily
operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the changes
are listed in the [Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[install]] page.

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
September 22.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]], for
example by [[donating|donate]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
