[[!meta date="Tue, 07 Mar 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.11 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.10]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

We are very sad to announce that Tails 2.11 will be the last version
to include [I2P](https://geti2p.net/), an alternative anonymizing network.

Maintaining software like I2P well-integrated in Tails takes time and
effort and our team is too busy with other priorities. Unfortunately, we
failed to find a developer outside of our team to maintain I2P in Tails.
As a consequence, the last version of I2P being shipped in Tails is
*0.9.25*, which is nearly one year old now at this moment.

But we will be happy to
reintroduce I2P if we find a volunteer to take care of maintaining
it in Tails. If you are a developer and care about I2P in Tails, that person could
be you! Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!

## New features

  - If running on a 32-bit processor, notify the user that it won't
    be able to start Tails 3.0 anymore. ([[!tails_ticket 12193]])

  - Notify I2P users that I2P will be removed in Tails
    2.12. ([[!tails_ticket 12271]])

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade Tor Browser to 6.5.1.

  - Fix CVE-2017-6074 (local root privilege escalation) by disabling
    the `dccp` module. ([[!tails_ticket 12280]]) Also disable kernel
    modules for some other uncommon network protocols. (Part of
    [[!tails_ticket 6457]])

## Fixed problems

  - Tor Browser: Don't show offline warning when opening the local
    documentation of Tails. ([[!tails_ticket 12269]])

  - Fix rare issue causing automatic upgrades to not apply properly
   ([[!tails_ticket 8449]] and [[!tails_ticket 11839]])

  - Install Linux 4.8.15 to prevent GNOME from freezing with Intel
    GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics. ([[!tails_ticket 12217]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.11

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.10 to 2.11.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 2.11.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.12 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 18th.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=2.11">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
