[[!meta title="Tails 4.15.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Wed, 28 Jan 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a security vulnerability in
*sudo*.

You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

## Included software

- Update *sudo* to 1.8.27-1+deb10u2, which fixes CVE-2021-3156, a major
  vulnerability that allows normal users to gain root privileges.

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.15.1</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.15.1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.15.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.16 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for February 23.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.15.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
