[[!meta date="Tue Jul 22 21:45:00 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.1, is out.

All users must [[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.0.1]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

  * Rebase on Debian Wheezy
    - Upgrade literally thousands of packages.
    - Migrate to GNOME3 fallback mode.
    - Install LibreOffice instead of OpenOffice.

  * Major new features
    - UEFI boot support, which should make Tails boot on modern
      hardware and Mac computers.
    - Replace the Windows XP camouflage with a Windows 8 camouflage.
    - Bring back VirtualBox guest modules, installed from Wheezy
      backports. Full functionality is only available when using the
      32-bit kernel.

  * Security fixes
    - Fix write access to boot medium via udisks ([[!tails_ticket 6172]]).
    - Upgrade the web browser to 24.7.0esr-0+tails1~bpo70+1
      (Firefox 24.7.0esr + Iceweasel patches + Torbrowser patches).
    - Upgrade to Linux 3.14.12-1 (fixes CVE-2014-4699).
    - Make persistent file permissions safer ([[!tails_ticket 7443]]).

  * Bugfixes
    - Fix quick search in Tails Greeter's Other languages window
      (Closes: [[!tails_ticket 5387]])

  * Minor improvements
    - Don't install Gobby 0.4 anymore. Gobby 0.5 has been available in
      Debian since Squeeze, now is a good time to drop the obsolete
      0.4 implementation.
    - Require a bit less free memory before checking for upgrades with
      Tails Upgrader. The general goal is to avoid displaying "Not
      enough memory available to check for upgrades" too often due to
      over-cautious memory requirements checked in the wrapper.
    - Whisperback now sanitizes attached logs better with respect to
      DMI data, IPv6 addresses, and serial numbers ([[!tails_ticket
      6797]], [[!tails_ticket 6798]], [[!tails_ticket 6804]]).
    - Install the BookletImposer PDF imposition toolkit.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* Users of persistence must log in at least once with persistence
  enabled read-write after upgrading to 1.1 to see their settings
  updated.

* Upgrading from ISO, from Tails 1.1~rc1, Tails 1.0.1 or earlier, is
  a bit more complicated than usual. Either follow <a
  href="#from_iso">the instructions to upgrade from ISO</a>. Or,
  burn a DVD, start Tails from it, and use "Clone and Upgrade".

* The automatic upgrade from Tails 1.1~rc1 is a bit more complicated
  than usual. Either follow <a href="#automatic">the instructions to
  apply the automatic upgrade</a>. Or, do a full upgrade.

* A persistent volume created with Tails 1.1~beta1 cannot be used with
  Tails 1.1 or later. Worse, trying this may freeze Tails Greeter.

* Tails 1.1 does not start in some virtualization environments, such
  as QEMU 0.11.1 and VirtualBox 4.2. This can be corrected by
  upgrading to QEMU 1.0 or VirtualBox 4.3, or newer
  ([[!tails_ticket 7232]]).

* The web browser's JavaScript performance may be severely degraded
  ([[!tails_ticket 7127]]). Please let us know if you are experiencing
  this to a level where it is problematic.

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
September 2.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!

<a id="from_iso"></a>

# How to upgrade from ISO?

These steps allow you to upgrade a device installed with <span
class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.0.1, Tails
1.1~beta1 or earlier, to Tails 1.1.

1. Start Tails from another DVD, USB stick, or SD card, than the
   device that you want to upgrade.

2. [[Set an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

3. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span> to install the latest version of <span
   class="application">Tails Installer</span>:

       echo "deb http://deb.tails.boum.org/ 1.1 main" \
           > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tails-upgrade.list && \
           apt-get update && \
           apt-get install liveusb-creator

4. Follow the [[usual instructions to upgrade from
   ISO|doc/first_steps/upgrade#from_iso]], except the first step.

<a id="automatic"></a>

# How to automatically upgrade from Tails 1.1~rc1?

These steps allow you to automatically upgrade a device installed with
<span class="application">Tails Installer</span> from Tails 1.1~rc1 to
Tails 1.1.

1. Start Tails 1.1~rc1 from the device you want to upgrade.

2. [[Set an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

3. Run this command in a <span class="application">Terminal</span> to
   apply the automatic upgrade:

       echo 'TAILS_CHANNEL="stable-fixed"' | sudo tee --append /etc/os-release && \
         cd / && tails-upgrade-frontend-wrapper
