[[!meta date="Thu Sep 25 12:34:56 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.1.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.1.2, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.1.1]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

We prepared this release mainly to fix a [[serious
flaw|https://blog.mozilla.org/security/2014/09/24/rsa-signature-forgery-in-nss/]]
in the Network Security Services (NSS) library used by Firefox and other
products allows attackers to create forged RSA certificates.

Before this release, users on a compromised network could be directed to sites
using a fraudulent certificate and mistake them for legitimate sites. This could
deceive them into revealing personal information such as usernames and
passwords. It may also deceive users into downloading malware if they believe
it’s coming from a trusted site.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade the web browser to 24.8.0esr-0+tails3~bpo70+1
    - Install Linux 3.16-1
    - Numerous other software upgrades that fix security issues:
      GnuPG, APT, DBus, Bash, and packages built from the bind9 and
      libav source packages

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* The version of `tor` shipped in Tails 1.1.2 really is 0.2.4.24, *not*
  0.2.4.21 as reported in the logs and by `tor --version`. The reason
  is that the package was built with outdated files generated by
  `autogen.sh`, but this only affects the reported version, not the
  code.

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
October 14.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
