[[!meta date="Fri, 27 Apr 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.11 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.11, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Tails Greeter, the login screen which obsoletes the language
  selection boot menu. Tails Greeter also adds some new options:
  - Activating persistence (see below).
  - Setting a sudo password. Unlike earlier Tails releases, full sudo
    access via an empty password is not available any more. In fact,
    full sudo access is disabled per default, but can be enabled by
    setting this password.
  See [[the
  documentation|doc/first_steps/startup_options#tails_greeter]]
  for details.

* Tails USB installer. This graphical user interface mostly obsoletes
  our old instructions of cat'ing the .iso directly onto a block
  device. All of the USB drive must be dedicated to Tails; a bit of
  extra space is reserved so that future Tails releases will fit when
  upgrading, and the rest can be used for persistence (see below) or
  manually formatted if the user so wishes. See the USB installation
  documentation for details.

* Persistence can optionally be used when running Tails from a USB
  drive. Application configurations and arbitrary directories can be
  made persistent. See [[the persistence
  documentation|doc/first_steps/persistence]] for details.

* iceweasel
  - Install iceweasel 10.0.4esr-1 (Extended Support Release).
  - Search plugins: replace Debian-provided DuckDuckGo search plugin
    with the "HTML SSL" one; add ixquick.com; remove Scroogle.
  - Enable TLS false start.

* Vidalia: upgrade to 0.2.17-1+tails1

* Internationalization:
  - Install all available iceweasel l10n packages.
  - Add fonts for Hebrew, Thai, Khmer, Lao and Korean languages.
  - Add bidi support.
  - Don't purge locales anymore.
  - Don't remove any Scribus translations anymore.

* Hardware support
  - Linux 3.2.15-1 (linux-image-3.2.0-2-amd64).
  - Fix low sound level on MacBook5,2.
  - Disable laptop-mode-tools automatic modules. This modules set often
    needs some amount of hardware-specific tweaking to work properly.
    This makes them rather not well suited for a Live system.

* Software
  - Install GNOME keyring.
  - Install the Traverso multitrack audio recorder and editor.

* Miscellaneous
  - NetworkManager is now started at PostLogin time by tails-greeter,
    rather than as a system service.
  - Pidgin: don't use the OFTC hidden service anymore.
    It proved to be quite unreliable, being sometimes down for days.
  - Do not display storage volumes on Desktop. This workarounds
    a usability issue when persistence is enabled, and paves the way
    towards GNOME3's empty Desktop.
  - Don't build hybrid ISO images anymore. They boot less reliably on
    a variety of hardware, and are made less useful by us shipping
    a USB installer from now on.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.11)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# A glimpse towards the future

Where do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
