[[!meta date="Tue, 09 Apr 2013 11:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.17.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.17.2, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade to Iceweasel 17.0.5esr-0+tails2~bpo60+1.
  - Stop displaying obsolete context menu entries ("Open Tor URL" and friends).

* Hardware support
  - Update Linux to 3.2.41-2.
  - Temporarily drop the Rendition display driver.

* Bugfixes
  - Use more reliable OpenPGP keyservers.
  - Keep udisks users (GNOME Disk Utility, tails-persistence-setup, etc.)
    from resetting the system partition's attributes when manipulating the
    partition table.

* Minor improvements
  - Disable NoScript's HTML5 media click-to-play for better user experience.

* Localization
  - Many updated and new translations all over the place.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=0.17.2)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release (0.18) is scheduled for May 16.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], there are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
