[[!meta date="Tue, 22 Sep 2015 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.6 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.6, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.5.1]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade *Tor Browser* to version 5.0.3 (based on
    Firefox 38.3.0 ESR).
  - Upgrade *I2P* to version 0.9.22 and enable its AppArmor profile.

There are numerous other changes that might not be apparent in the daily
operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the changes
are listed in the [Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

## Fixed problems

  - Fix several issues related to *MAC address spoofing*:
    * If MAC address spoofing fails on a network interface and
      this interface cannot be disabled, then all networking is now
      completely disabled.
    * A notification is displayed if MAC address spoofing causes network
      issues, for example if a network only allows connections from a
      list of authorized MAC addresses.

# Known issues

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[install]] or [[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade/]] page.

If you have been updating automatically for a while and your Tails does not
boot after an automatic upgrade, you can [[update your Tails
manually|doc/first_steps/upgrade/#manual]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
November 3.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]], for
example by [[donating|donate]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
