[[!meta date="Tue, 26 Jun 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.8 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.7.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Upgrade *Enigmail* from 1.9.9 to
  [2.0.7](https://enigmail.net/index.php/en/download/changelog#enig2.0.7) which
  fixes some of the [EFAIL](https://efail.de/) attacks on OpenPGP.

## Fixed problems

- Fix importing OpenPGP keys from email attachments. ([[!tails_ticket 15610]])

- Fix the translations of the homepage of the *Unsafe Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket 15461]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

After upgrading to Tails 3.8, you have to go through the
<span class="application">Enigmail Setup Wizard</span> again every time you
restart Tails.

Your OpenPGP keys and your per-recipient rules are preserved.

To avoid going through the <span class="application">Enigmail Setup
Wizard</span>, you can execute the following command in a terminal
before starting <span class="application">Thunderbird</span>:

<pre>echo 'pref("extensions.enigmail.configuredVersion", "2.0.7");' >> ~/.thunderbird/profile.default/preferences/0000tails.js</pre>

[[!img enigmail-setup.png link="no" alt=""]]

This bug will be fixed in the next version of Tails. ([[!tails_ticket 15693]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.8

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.6, 3.6.1, 3.6.2, 3.7, and 3.7.1.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.8.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.9 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for September 5.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.8">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
