[[!meta date="Tue, 20 Jun 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.14.1 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a critical security
vulnerability in *Tor Browser*.

It also fixes [[other security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.14]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Critical security vulnerabilities in *Tor Browser*

<a id="arbitrary-code-execution"></a>

## Fixed arbitrary code execution

**This vulnerability is fixed in Tails 3.14.1.**

A [critical vulnerability](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2019-18/)
was discovered in the JavaScript engine of *Firefox* and *Tor Browser*.
This vulnerability allowed a malicious website to execute arbitrary
code, which means possibly taking over your browser and turning it into
a malicious application.

This vulnerability has already been used to
[target employees of the Coinbase cryptocurrency exchange](https://www.zdnet.com/article/firefox-zero-day-was-used-in-attack-against-coinbase-employees-not-its-users/).

People using the *Safer* or *Safest* [[security level of *Tor
Browser*|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#security_level]] are not
affected because the feature of JavaScript that is affected (the
*[[!wikipedia just-in-time compilation]]*) is disabled in these security
levels.

Because *Tor Browser* in Tails is [[confined using
*AppArmor*|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#confinement]], the impact
of this vulnerability in Tails is less than in other operating systems.
For example, an exploited *Tor Browser* in Tails could have accessed
your files in the *Tor Browser* and *Persistent/Tor Browser* folders but
not anywhere else.

<a id="sandbox-escape"></a>

## Unfixed sandbox escape

<div class="caution">

<p><strong>This second vulnerability is still affecting Tails 3.14.1 and
<em>Tor Browser</em> is unsafe to use in most cases.</strong></p>

<p>We will fix it as soon as possible.</p>

</div>

[[!inline pages="news/version_3.14.1/sandbox_escape.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

We might update our analysis or announce an emergency release soon in
our [[security advisory|security/sandbox_escape_in_tor_browser]].

# Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to
  [8.5.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-852).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.0.5.

- Upgrade *Thunderbird* to [60.7.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/60.7.0/releasenotes/).

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

## Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We partially fix this issue in 3.14.1 but are still investigating it, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.14.1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 3.13, 3.13.1, 3.13.2, and 3.14 to 3.14.1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.14.1:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.15 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for July 9.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.14.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
