[[!meta date="Wed, 28 Nov 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.15 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.15, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

Thank you, and congrats, to everyone who helped make this happen!

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Tor
  - Upgrade to 0.2.3.25

* Major new features
  - [[Persistence for browser bookmarks|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure]].
  - Support for [[obfsproxy bridges|doc/first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]].

* Minor improvements
  - Add the Hangul (Korean) Input Method Engine for SCIM.
  - Preliminary support for some OpenPGP SmartCard readers.
  - Support printers that need HPIJS PPD and/or the IJS driver.
  - Optimize fonts display for LCD.
  - Update TrueCrypt to version 7.1a.

* Bugfixes
  - Fix gpgApplet menu display in Windows camouflage mode.
  - Fix Tor reaching an inactive state if it's restarted in "bridge mode",
    e.g. during the time sync' process.

* Iceweasel
  - Update iceweasel to 10.0.11esr-1+tails1.
  - Update HTTPS Everywhere to version 3.0.4.
  - Update NoScript to version 2.6.
  - Fix bookmark to I2P router console.

* Localization
  - The Tails USB installer, tails-persistence-setup and tails-greeter
    are now translated into Bulgarian.
  - Update Chinese translation for tails-greeter.
  - Update Euskadi translation for WhisperBack.

Plus the usual bunch of bug reports and minor improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.15)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
