[[!meta title="Tails 4.17 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 23 Mar 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes known security
vulnerabilities. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

<h1 id="upgrades">Reliability improvements to automatic upgrades</h1>

- Repair automatically the file system used during upgrades.

  Automatic upgrades were sometimes failing even after doing a manual upgrade
  because of an unclean file system. ([[!tails_ticket 17902]])

- Resume automatically when the download of an upgrade fails.

<h1 id="changes">Other changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.14](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-10014).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.8.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.8.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.5.7.

- Update *GRUB* to [2.04-16](https://www.debian.org/security/2020-GRUB-UEFI-SecureBoot/).

- Update some firmware packages. This should improve the support for some
  Wi-Fi interfaces, especially Intel, Broadcom, and Cypress interfaces.

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Improve the error message when starting the *Unsafe Browser* while offline. ([[!tails_ticket 12251]])

  [[!img unsafe.png link="no" alt="New error message: You are not connected to a local network yet."]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

[[!inline pages="news/version_4.14/broken_upgrades" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.17</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier. See the
  <a href="#broken-upgrades">known issue above</a>.

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.14 or later to 4.17.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.17 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.18 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 20.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.16">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
