[[!meta date="Wed, 09 May 2018 17:26:18 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.7 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[several security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.6.2]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.5.4.

  This fixes a [critical issue in
  Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2018-12/)
  announced on May 9.

## Fixed problems

- Allow removing the optional OpenPGP key in *WhisperBack*, in case you
  specified one.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.7

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.6, 3.6.1, and
  3.6.2 to 3.7.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

  If you are doing a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, it
  is only possible to select an ISO image when running Tails in English. For
  other languages, the file chooser button remains inactive:

  [[!img news/version_3.5/broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

  To do a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, you can either:

  - Restart Tails in English.

  - Start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> in
    English from the command line:

    <pre>LANG=en_US tails-installer</pre>

- [[Download Tails 3.7.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.8 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.7">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
