[[!meta title="Tails 4.10 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 25 Aug 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.9]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.5.4](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-954).

- Update *Tor* to [0.4.3.6](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor.git/tree/ChangeLog).

- Update *Electrum* from 3.3.8 to
  [4.0.2](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES).

- Update *Linux* to 5.7.10. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Hide the welcome message when starting Thunderbird.

# Fixed problems

- Fix support for USB Wi-Fi adapters with Atheros AR9271 hardware.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17834]])

- Fix USB tethering from iPhone. ([[!tails_ticket 17820]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.10

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.10.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.10 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.11 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for September 22.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.10">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
