[[!meta date="Thu, 19 Sep 2013 13:30:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.20.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.20.1, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.20]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* New features
  - Install Tor 0.2.4.17-rc.
  - Install Iceweasel 17.0.9esr with Torbrowser patches.
  - Install Linux kernel 3.10-3 (version 3.10.11-1).

* Bugfixes
  - Remount persistence devices read-only at shutdown/reboot time
    ([[!tails_ticket 6228]]).
  - Greeter: display a warning icon on admin password mismatch and on
    persistence unlocking failure. Thanks to Andres Gomez Ramirez
    <andres.gomez@cern.ch> for the fix!
  - Fix the I2P IRC account.
  - Allow installing "Priority: standard" packages that we do not install
    by default.

* Minor improvements
  - Additional software: point to the system log on upgrade failure.

* Localization
  - Many translation updates all over the place.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

No new known issue but [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

## For users of the Pidgin persistence feature

If you have turned on the persistent Pidgin configuration feature,
then you have to update the following configuration in Pidgin:

<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Preferences</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Proxy</span>

1. Activate <span class="guilabel">Use remote DNS with SOCKS4
   proxies</span>.
1. Choose <span class="guilabel">SOCKS5</span> as the <span
   class="guilabel">Proxy type</span>.
1. Type <span class="guilabel">127.0.0.1</span> as the <span
   class="guilabel">Host</span>.
1. Type <span class="guilabel">9050</span> as the <span
   class="guilabel">Port</span>.

Click on the <span class="guilabel">Close</span> button.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for around October 29.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
