[[!meta date="Tue, 29 Oct 2013 13:30:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.21 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.21, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.20.1]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Security fixes
  - Don't grant access to the Tor control port for the desktop user.
    Else, an attacker able to run arbitrary code as this user could
    obtain the public IP.
  - Don't allow the desktop user to directly change persistence
    settings. Else, an attacker able to run arbitrary code as this
    user could leverage this feature to gain persistent root access,
    as long as persistence is enabled.
  - Install Iceweasel 17.0.10esr with Torbrowser patches.
  - Patch Torbutton to make window resizing closer to what the
    design says.

* New features
  - Add a persistence preset for printing settings.
  - Support running Tails off more types of SD cards.

* Minor improvements
  - Add a KeePassX launcher to the top panel.
  - Improve the bug reporting workflow.
  - Prefer stronger ciphers when encrypting data with GnuPG.
  - Exclude the version string in GnuPG's ASCII armored output.
  - Use the same custom Startpage search URL than the TBB.
    This apparently disables the new broken "family" filter.
  - Provide a consistent path to the persistent volume mountpoint.

* Localization
  - Many translation updates all over the place.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* On some hardware, Vidalia does not start ([[!tails_ticket 6389]]).
* The "New Identity" feature in the web browser is not available
  anymore ([[!tails_ticket 6383]]).
* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for around December 11.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
