[[!meta date="Tue Nov 15 15:23:42 2016"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.7 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.6]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - Ship LetsEncrypt intermedite SSL certificate so that our tools will be
    able to go on authenticating our website when its certifcate will be updated.

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade *Tor* to [0.2.8.9](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-0289-released-important-fixes).

  - Upgrade *Tor Browser* to [6.0.6](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-browser-606-released).

  - Upgrade to Linux 4.7.

  - Upgrade *Icedove* to [45.4.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/45.4.0/releasenotes/).

## Fixed problems

  - Synaptic installs packages with the correct architecture.
  - Set default spelling to en_US in Icedove.

# Known issues

  - Users setting their Tor Browser security slider to High will have to click
    on a link to see the result of the search they done with the search box.

# Get Tails 2.7

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.6 to 2.7.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.7.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.8 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
