[[!meta date="Mon, 13 Jun 2011 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.7.2, is out.

This is a bugfix-only release mainly aimed at fixing serious security
issues in bundled software. All users must upgrade as soon as
possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Iceweasel
  - Disable Torbutton's external application launch warning.
    ... which advises using Tails. Tails *is* running Tails.
  - FoxyProxy: install from Debian instead of the older one we previously
    shipped.

* Software
  - Upgrade Linux kernel to Debian's 2.6.32-34squeeze1: fixes tons of
    bugs, closes a few security holes as well.
  - haveged: install an official Debian backport instead of a custom backport.
  - unrar: install the version from Debian's non-free repository.
    Users report unrar-free does not work well enough.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](http://git.immerda.ch/?p=amnesia.git;a=blob_plain;f=debian/changelog;hb=refs/tags/0.7.2)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# A glimpse towards the future

Were do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
