[[!meta date="Tue, 15 Dec 2015 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.8 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.7]]. All users must
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- <span class="application">[[Icedove|doc/anonymous_internet/icedove]]</span> a
  rebranded version of <span class="application">Mozilla Thunderbird</span> is
  now the official email client in Tails, replacing
  <span class="application">Claws Mail</span>.

  <span class="application">Claws Mail</span> will be removed from Tails in
  version 2.0 (2016-01-26). If you have been using
  <span class="application">Claws Mail</span> and activated its persistence
  feature, follow our instructions to [[migrate your data to
  <span class="application">Icedove</span>|doc/anonymous_internet/claws_mail_to_icedove]].

## Upgrades and changes

- Electrum from 1.9.8 to [2.5.4](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/0d4de870a5159d491b604d29780f6bfb539c49f3/RELEASE-NOTES).
  Now Electrum should work again in Tails.

- Tor Browser to [5.0.5](https://gitweb.torproject.org/builders/tor-browser-bundle.git/tree/Bundle-Data/Docs/ChangeLog.txt?h=maint-5.0&id=tbb-5.0.5-build1).

- Tor to [0.2.7.6](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor.git/tree/ChangeLog?id=tor-0.2.7.6).

- I2P to [0.9.23](https://geti2p.net/en/blog/post/2015/11/19/0.9.23-Release).

- Icedove from 31.8 to 38.4.

- Enigmail from 1.7.2 to 1.8.2.

# Known issues

* Automatic upgrades are much slower to apply than before.
  Expect the upgrade to take around an hour *after* the download is
  finished. See [[!tails_ticket 10757]] for details.

* The [[doc/first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]] fails if the
  system clock is incorrect. To prevent this problem, correct the system
  clock *before* connecting to the network. To do so:

  1. [[Set up an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]]
     when starting Tails.

  1. Right-click on the system clock in the top navigation bar and
     choose <span class="guimenuitem">Adjust Date & Time</span>.

  1. Click the <span class="button">Unlock</span> button and enter the
     administration password from step 1.

  1. Adjust the time to be the correct time in
     [[!wikipedia Coordinated_Universal_Time desc="UTC"]] (use the
     same difference with your local time as observed usually in Tails).

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[install]] or [[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade/]] page.

If your Tails does not
boot after an automatic upgrade, please [[upgrade your Tails
manually|doc/first_steps/upgrade#manual]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
