[[!meta date="Sun, 10 Jun 2018 16:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.7.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.7]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Upgrade *Tor Browser* to 7.5.5.

  This fixes a [[!mfsa 2018-14 desc="critical issue in Firefox"]]
  announced on June 6.

- Upgrade *Thunderbird* to 52.8.0.

  This partly mitigates the infamous EFAIL attack and fixes importing
  OpenPGP keys from keyservers with Enigmail.

## Fixed problems

- Fix setting a screen locker password with non-ASCII characters.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15636]])

- Rename the *WhisperBack* launcher to "WhisperBack Error Reporting"
  so that users have a better chance to understand what it does.
  ([[!tails_ticket 6432]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.7.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.6, 3.6.1, 3.6.2,
  and 3.7 to 3.7.1.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 3.7.1.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.8 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.7.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
