[[!meta date="Tue, 13 Nov 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.14 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.14, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

Thank you, and congrats, to everyone who helped make this happen!

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Tor
  - Upgrade to 0.2.3.24-rc
  - Enable [[contribute/design/stream_isolation]]

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade iceweasel to 10.0.10esr-1+tails1, with anonymity enhancing
    patches from the TorBrowser applied
  - Fix Iceweasel's file associations. No more should you be suggested
    to open a PDF in the GIMP

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux to 3.2.32
  - Support more than 4GB of RAM
  - Support more than one CPU core

* Miscellaneous
  - Mostly fix memory wiping at shutdown
  - gpgApplet can now handle public-key cryptography
  - Add a persistence preset for NetworkManager connections
  - Better support setting up persistence on large USB sticks
  - Make boot faster by fixing a read-ahead bug
  - Make shutdown faster by disabling useless scripts

* Localization
  - Custom software is now translated in many more languages
  - Add Japanese input system

Plus the usual bunch of bug reports and minor improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.14)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
