[[!meta title="Tails 4.2.2 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 14 Jan 2020 11:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a critical security
vulnerability in *Tor Browser*.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to
  [9.0.4](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-904).

  This fixes a [[!mfsa 2020-03 desc="critical vulnerability"]]
  in the JavaScript JIT compiler of *Firefox* and *Tor Browser*.

  Mozilla is aware of targeted attacks in the wild abusing this
  vulnerability.

  This vulnerability only affects the *standard* [[security
  level|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#security_level]] of *Tor
  Browser*. The *safer* and *safest* security levels are not affected.

# Fixed problems

- Avoid a 2-minutes delay when restarting after doing an automatic
  upgrade. ([[!tails_ticket 17026]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.2.2

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2 to 4.2.2.

  Users of Tails 4.0, 4.1, and 4.1.1 have to upgrade to 4.2 first and
  then to 4.2.2.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 4.2.2:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.3 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for February 11.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.2.2">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
