[[!meta date="Fri, 30 Mar 2018 17:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.6.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[several security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.6.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.5.3.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 52.7.0.

- Update *Intel microcode* to 3.20180312.1, which adds Spectre variant
  2 mitigation for most common Intel processors.

- Upgrade *Linux* to 4.15.11-1.

## Fixed problems

- Make input of Japanese and Korean characters in Tor Browser work
  again.

- Fix Tor Browser so add-ons installed by users work again, such as
  Tails Verification.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.6.2

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.6 and 3.6.1 to
  3.6.2.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

  If you are doing a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, it is only possible to select an
  ISO image when running Tails in English. For other languages, the
  file chooser button remains inactive:

  [[!img news/version_3.5/broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

  To do a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, you can either:

  - Restart Tails in English.

  - Start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> in
    English from the command line:

    <pre>LANG=en_US tails-installer</pre>

- [[Download Tails 3.6.2.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.7 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.6.2">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
