[[!meta date="Mon, 25 Feb 2013 16:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.17 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.17, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* New features
  - Install the KeePassX password manager, with a configuration and
    [[documentation|doc/encryption_and_privacy/manage_passwords]] that
    makes it easy to persist the password database.

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade to Iceweasel 17.0.3esr-1+tails1~bpo60+1.
  - Do not allow listing all available fonts.
  - Improve default spellchecker dictionary selection.
  - Disable the add-ons automatic update feature.
  - Remove NoScript click-to-play confirmation.
  - Sync some prefs set by Torbutton, to be ready when it stops setting these.
  - Disable navigation timing.
  - Disable SPDY.
  - More aggressive iceweasel HTTP pipelining settings.
  - Enable WebGL (as click-to-play only).
  - Disable network.http.connection-retry-timeout.
  - Disable full path information for plugins.
  - Remove NoScript blocks of WebFonts.

* Minor improvements
  - Upgrade to live-boot 3.0~b11-1 and live-config 3.0.12-1.
  - Don't add "quiet" to the kernel command-line ourselves.
  - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.4.

* Bugfixes
  - Many bugfixes brought by the Debian Squeeze 6.0.7 point-release.
  - Use the regular GnuPG agent + pinentry-gtk2 instead of Seahorse
    as a GnuPG agent. This fixes usage of OpenPGP in Claws Mail,
    and brings support for OpenPGP smartcards.
  - Enable I2P hidden mode.
    Else, killing I2P ungracefully is bad for the I2P network.
  - Add shutdown and reboot launchers to the menu.
    This workarounds the lack of a shutdown helper applet in camouflage mode.
  - Remove Pidgin's MXit and Sametime support to workaround security flaws.

* Hardware support
  - Install recent Intel and AMD microcode.
  - Install firmware loader for Qualcomm Gobi USB chipsets.
  - Upgrade barry to 0.18.3-5~bpo60+1.

* Localization
  - Tails USB Installer: update translations for Arabic, Czech,
    German, Hebrew, Polish and Spanish.
  - tails-greeter: update Spanish and French translations, new
    Polish translation.
  - tails-persistence-setup: update translations for Arabic,
    Bulgarian, Spanish, French, Dutch, Polish and Chinese.
  - WhisperBack: update Spanish and Korean translations, import new
    Polish translation.

Plus the usual bunch of bug reports and minor improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=0.17)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for April 9. It will probably be
a minor, bugfix only one.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], there are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
