[[!meta date="Wed, 4 Sep 2019 23:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.16 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.15]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

- Remove *LibreOffice Math*

  You can install *LibreOffice Math* again using the
  *[[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]* feature.

- Remove our predefined bookmarks in *Tor Browser*.

- Remove the predefined I2P and IRC accounts in *Pidgin*.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.5.5.

- Update *Linux* to 4.19.37-5+deb10u2, which fixes the [SWAPGS variant of the
  Spectre vulnerability](https://access.redhat.com/articles/4329821).

- Update most firmware packages. This should improve the support for
  newer hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

# Fixed problems

- Fix opening the persistent storage of another Tails USB stick from the
  *Files* browser. ([[!tails_ticket 16789]])

- Fix the translation of *Additional Software*. ([[!tails_ticket 16601]])

- Remove the security level indicator in the *Unsafe Browser*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16735]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.16

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 3.14, 3.14.1, 3.14.2, and 3.15
  to 3.16.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.16:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.0 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 22.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.16">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
