[[!meta title="Tails 4.12 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 20 Oct 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.11]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.2](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1002).

- Update *tor* to 0.4.4.5.

- Update Linux to 5.8 and most firmware packages. This should improve the
  support for newer hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Add a button to cancel an automated upgrade while downloading. ([[!tails_ticket 17310]])

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix several internationalization issues in *Electrum*, *Tails Installer*, and
  *Tails Upgrader*. ([[!tails_ticket 17958]], [[!tails_ticket 17758]], and
  [[!tails_ticket 17961]])

- Anonymize URLs in the technical details provided by *WhisperBack*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17147]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.12</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.12.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.12 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.13 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for November 17.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.12">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
