[[!meta date="Sun, 18 Mar 2018 18:30:12 +0100"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.6.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[several security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.6]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.5.2.

  This fixes a [critical issue in
  Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2018-08/)
  announced on March 16.

## Fixed problems

- This release is [[reproducible|contribute/build/reproducible]], unlike
  Tails 3.6. ([[!tails_ticket 15400]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- <span class="application">Tails Verification</span>, our browser
  extension to verify Tails downloads, is broken in Tails 3.6.1. Please
  use it from Firefox, Chrome, or Tor Browser outside of Tails.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15434]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.6.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.6 to 3.6.1.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

  If you are doing a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, it is only possible to select an
  ISO image when running Tails in English. For other languages, the
  file chooser button remains inactive:

  [[!img news/version_3.5/broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

  To do a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, you can either:

  - Restart Tails in English.

  - Start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> in
    English from the command line:

    <pre>LANG=en_US tails-installer</pre>

- [[Download Tails 3.6.1.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.7 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.6.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
