[[!meta date="Tue, 14 Nov 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.3 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.2]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor* to 0.3.1.8 which saves bandwidth when starting.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.0.10.

- Update *Thunderbird* to [52.4.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/52.4.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 4.13.0.

## Fixed problems

- Fix UEFI support for USB sticks installed using *Universal USB
  Installer*. ([[!tails_ticket 8992]])

- Fix errors on file system creation in *Tails Installer* when the
  target USB stick is plugged before starting *Tails Installer*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 14755]]).

- Fix *Tails Installer* on Debian sid and recent versions of *udisks2*. ([[!tails_ticket 14809]])

- Fix the screen reader and screen keyboard in *Tor Browser* and
  *Thunderbird*. ([[!tails_ticket 14752]], [[!tails_ticket 9260]])

- Make the configuration of the keyboard layout more robust when
  starting a session. ([[!tails_ticket 12543]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- Due to [an issue in *Tor
  Browser*](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/24243), the
  documentation shipped in Tails doesn't open in *Tor Browser* anymore
  and lacks our sidebar. The warning page of the
  *Unsafe Browser* also lacks graphical design. ([[!tails_ticket 14962]])
- Starting Tails 3.3 from DVD takes more than twice as long as earlier
  releases. ([[!tails_ticket 14964]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.3

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.1 and 3.2 to 3.3.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.3.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 16.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.3">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
