[[!meta title="Tails 4.19 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 01 Jun 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We worked very hard last week to get ready to release the work on the
connection to Tor that we have been showing you in
[[4.19~beta1|test_4.19-beta1]] and [[4.19~rc1|test_4.19-rc1]]. We made a lot of
progress but didn't feel confident enough to release it today.

So, we are releasing 4.19 as a regular upgrade and will release this work in
4.20. We will publish an updated rc2 in the coming days with even more
improvements on the connection to Tor.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Stop pinning the TLS certificate of our website when doing automatic
  upgrades.

  We broke automatic upgrades twice recently; once in December in
  [[4.14|news/version_4.15#broken-upgrades]] and again during a few days on
  [[!tails_ticket 18324 desc="May 15"]]. These 2 times, it was the consequence
  of a security feature: the pinning of the TLS certificate of our website when
  doing automatic upgrades.

  We removed this feature because the recent problems proved us that this
  feature was not worth it if it makes us break automatic upgrades that often.
  ([[!tails_ticket 18324]])

  Our upgrades are still as strongly authenticated as they are signed using
  OpenPGP by our team.

- Add visual feedback when typing an administration password with <span
  class="code">sudo</span> in a terminal:

      amnesia@amnesia:~$ sudo -i
      [sudo] password for amnesia: ******** 

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.17](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-10017).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.10.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.10.0/releasenotes/).

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.19</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier. See the
  <a href="#broken-upgrades">known issue above</a>.

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.14 or later to 4.19.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.19 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.20 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for July 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.
