[[!meta date="Wed Jan 14 12:34:56 2015"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.2.3 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.2.3, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.2.2]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

On January 3rd, the SSL certificate of our website hosting provider,
boum.org, expired. This means that if you still are running Tails
1.2.1 or older, you will not get any update notification. Please
help spreading the word!

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade to Linux 3.16.7-ckt2-1.
    - Upgrade to Tor Browser 4.0.3 (based on Firefox 31.4.0esr)
      ([[!tails_ticket 8700]]).
    - Improve MAC spoofing fail-safe mechanisms, which includes preventing one
      more way the MAC address could be leaked. ([[!tails_ticket 8571]]).
    - Disable upgrade checking in the Unsafe Browser. Until now the
      Unsafe Browser has checked for upgrades of the Tor Browser in
      the clear ([[!tails_ticket 8694]]).

  * Bugfixes
    - Fix startup of the Unsafe Browser in some locales
      ([[!tails_ticket 8693]]).
    - Repair the desktop screenshot feature ([[!tails_ticket 8087]]).
    - Do not suspend to RAM when closing the lid on battery power
      ([[!tails_ticket 8071]]).
    - Properly update the Tails Installer's status when plugging in a
      USB drive after it has started ([[!tails_ticket 8353]]).

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* It is [[hard to exchange files with the I2P Browser|support/known_issues#i2p_browser]].

* Tails' MAC spoofing feature disables
  [[Broadcom BCM43224 wireless adapters|support/known_issues#bcm43224]].
  This network adapter can be found in the MacBook Air 5,1.

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
February 24.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
