[[!meta date="Tue Jan 26 12:34:56 2016"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.0 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We are especially proud to present you Tails 2.0, the first version of Tails
based on:

  - GNOME Shell, with lots of changes in the desktop environment.
  - Debian 8 (Jessie), which upgrades most included software and improves
    many things under the hood.

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.8.2]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

[[!inline pages="inc/release_notes/2.0" raw="yes"]]

For more details, see also our [changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

* Tor Browser 5.5 introduces
  [protection against fingerprinting](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/13313)
  but due to an [oversight](https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/11000)
  it is not enabled in Tails 2.0. However, this is not so bad for
  Tails users since each Tails system has the same fonts installed,
  and hence will look identical, so this only means that it's easy to
  distinguish whether a user of Tor Browser 5.5 uses Tails or
  not. That is already easy given that Tails has the AdBlock Plus
  extension enabled, unlike the normal Tor Browser.

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Installing

We also redesigned completely our download and installation instructions to
make it easier to get started with Tails.

For example, you can now verify the ISO image automatically from Firefox using
a special add-on.

You can also install or upgrade Tails directly from Debian or Ubuntu using the
`tails-installer` package.

[[Try our new installation assistant.|install]]

[[!img assistant.png link="no"]]

# Upgrading

Tails changed so much since version 1.8.2 that it is impossible to provide an
automatic upgrade. We recommend you [[follow our new manual upgrade
instructions|upgrade]] instead.

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 6.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|contribute/how/donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|contribute/talk]]!
