[[!meta date="Tue, 12 May 2015 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.4 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.4, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.3.2]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - *Tor Browser* 4.5 now has a **[[security slider|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#security_slider]]** that you can use to
    disable browser features, such as JavaScript, as a trade-off between
    security and usability. The security slider is set to *low* by
    default to provide the same level of security as previous versions
    and the most usable experience.

    [[We disabled in Tails the new circuit view of *Tor Browser* 4.5|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#circuitview]] for
    security reasons. You can still use the network map of *Vidalia* to
    inspect your circuits.

  - *OpenPGP Applet* now has a **shortcut to the *gedit* text
    editor**, thanks to Ivan Bliminse.

  - ***[[Paperkey|doc/advanced_topics/paperkey]]*** lets you print a
    backup of your OpenPGP secret keys on paper.

## Upgrades and changes

  - *Tor Browser* 4.5 protects better against **third-party tracking**. Often
    when visiting a website, many connections are created to transfer
    both the content of the main website (its page, images, and so on)
    and third-party content from other websites (advertisements, *Like*
    buttons, and so on). In *Tor Browser* 4.5, all such content, from
    the main website as well as the third-party websites, goes through
    the same Tor circuits. And these circuits are not reused when
    visiting a different website. This prevents third-party websites
    from correlating your visits to different websites.

  - *Tor Browser* 4.5 now keeps using the **same Tor circuit** while you are visiting a
    website. This prevents the website from suddenly changing language,
    behavior, or logging you out.

  - ***[Disconnect](https://search.disconnect.me/)*** is the new
    **default search engine**. *Disconnect* provides Google search
    results to Tor users without captchas or bans.

  - Better support for **Vietnamese** in *LibreOffice* through the
    installation of `fonts-linuxlibertine`.

  - Disable security warnings when connecting to POP3 and IMAP ports
    that are mostly used for StartTLS nowadays.

  - Support for **more printers** through the installation of
    `printer-driver-gutenprint`.

  - Upgrade **Tor** to 0.2.6.7.

  - Upgrade ***I2P*** to [0.9.19](https://geti2p.net/en/blog/post/2015/04/12/0.9.19-Release)
    that has several fixes and improvements for floodfill
    performance.

  - Remove the obsolete **#i2p-help IRC channel** from *Pidgin*.

  - Remove the command line email client **`mutt`** and **`msmtp`**.

There are numerous other changes that might not be apparent in the daily
operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the changes
are listed in the [Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

## Fixed problems

  - Make the browser theme of the Windows 8 camouflage compatible with
    the *Unsafe Browser* and the *I2P Browser*.

  - Remove the **Tor Network Settings...** from the *Torbutton* menu.

  - Better support for Chromebook C720-2800 through the upgrade of
    `syslinux`.

  - Fix the localization of *Tails Upgrader*.

  - Fix the OpenPGP key servers configured in *Seahorse*.

  - Prevent *Tor Browser* from crashing when *Orca* is enabled.

# Known issues

  - Claws Mail stores plaintext copies of all emails on the remote IMAP
    server, including those that are meant to be encrypted.
    If you send OpenPGP encrypted emails using *Claws Mail* and IMAP,
    make sure to apply one of the workarounds documented in our
    [[security announcement|security/claws_mail_leaks_plaintext_to_imap]].

  - See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[install]] page.

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
June 30.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
