[[!meta date="Tue, 20 Sep 2016 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.6 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.5]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - We enabled [[!wikipedia address space layout randomization]] in the Linux
    kernel (`kASLR`) to improve protection from buffer overflow attacks.

  - We installed [[`rngd`|contribute/design/random#rngd]] to improve the
    entropy of the random numbers generated on computers that have
    a hardware random number generator.

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade *Tor* to [0.2.8.7](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-0287-released-important-fixes).

  - Upgrade *Tor Browser* to [6.0.5](https://blog.torproject.org/blog/tor-browser-605-released).

  - Upgrade to Linux 4.6. This should improve the support for newer hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.)

  - Upgrade *Icedove* to [45.2.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/45.2.0/releasenotes/).

  - Upgrade *Tor Birdy* to [0.2.0](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torbirdy.git/tree/ChangeLog?id=0.2.0).

  - Upgrade *Electrum* to [2.6.4](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/7dbb23e8c6acfa40795d861b192c205dbb4b4268/RELEASE-NOTES).

  - Install firmware for Intel SST sound cards (`firmware-intel-sound`).

  - Install firmware for Texas Instruments Wi-Fi interfaces (`firmware-ti-connectivity`).

  - Remove `non-free` APT repositories. We documented how to [[configure
    additional APT repositories|doc/first_steps/additional_software#repository]]
    using the persistent volume.

  - Use a dedicated page as the homepage of *Tor Browser* so we can customize
    it for our users.

  - Set up the trigger for RAM erasure on shutdown earlier in the boot
    process. This should speed up shutdown and make RAM erasure more robust.

## Fixed problems

  - Disable the automatic configuration of *Icedove* when using [[!wikipedia OAuth]].
    This should fix the automatic configuration for GMail accounts. ([[!tails_ticket 11536]])

  - Make the *Disable all networking* and *Tor bridge mode* options of *Tails
    Greeter* more robust. ([[!tails_ticket 11593]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

# Known issues

* For some users memory wiping fails more often than in Tails 2.5, and
  for some users it fails less often. Please report any such changes
  to [[!tails_ticket 11786]].

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.6

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.5 to 2.6.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.6.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.7 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for November 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
