[[!meta date="Tue, 08 Aug 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.0.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

  - Update *Tor Browser* to 7.0.4.
  - Update *Linux* to 4.9.30-2+deb9u3.

## Fixed problems

  - Make sure that *Thunderbird* erases its temporary directory,
    containing for example attachments opened in the past. [[!tails_ticket 13340]]

  - Fix translations of the time synchronization and "*Tor is ready*"
    notifications. [[!tails_ticket 13437]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.0 to 3.1. Due to the
  [[!tails_ticket 13426]] bug, automatic upgrades from 3.0.1 are disabled.
  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.1.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.2 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 3.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
