[[!meta date="Tue, 9 Jul 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.15 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.14.2]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.5.4.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 60.7.2.

# Fixed problems

- Fix Tails failing to start a second time on some computers. ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

- Display an error message in the <span class="application">Unlock
  VeraCrypt Volumes</span> utility when closing a volume fails because
  the volume is being used. ([[!tails_ticket 15794]])

- Fix starting Tails through the
  <a href="http://osresearch.net/"><span class="application">Heads</span></a>
  boot firmware. ([Heads #581](https://github.com/osresearch/heads/issues/581))

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.15

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 3.13, 3.13.1, 3.13.2, 3.14,
  3.14.1, and 3.14.2 to 3.15.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.15:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.16 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for September 3.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.15">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
