[[!meta title="Tails 4.4 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Thu, 12 Mar 2020 10:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.3]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.0.6](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-906).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.5.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/68.5.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.4.19. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

# Fixed problems

- Tentatively fix Wi-Fi interfaces with Realtek RTL8822BE and RTL8822CE
  chipsets. ([[!tails_ticket 17323]])

  If you had a problem with Wi-Fi starting from Tails 4.1, please [[let us
  know|support/talk]] whether your problem was fixed or not.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.4

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2, 4.2.2, and 4.3 to 4.4.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 4.4:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 7.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.4">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
