[[!meta title="Tails 4.8 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 30 Jun 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.7]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# New features

- We disabled the *Unsafe Browser* by default and clarified that [[the
  *Unsafe Browser* can be used to deanonymize
  you|doc/anonymous_internet/unsafe_browser#security]].

  An attacker could exploit a security vulnerability in another
  application in Tails to start an invisible *Unsafe Browser* and reveal
  your IP address, even if you are not using the *Unsafe Browser*.

  For example, an attacker could exploit a security vulnerability in
  *Thunderbird* by sending you a phishing email that could start an
  invisible *Unsafe Browser* and reveal them your IP address.

  Such an attack is very unlikely but could be performed by a strong
  attacker, such as a government or a hacking firm.

  This is why we recommend that you:

  - Only enable the *Unsafe Browser* if you need to log in to a captive
    portal.
  - Always upgrade to the latest version of Tails to fix known
    vulnerabilities as soon as possible.

- We added a new feature of the Persistent Storage to save the settings
  from the Welcome Screen.

  This feature is beta and only the additional setting to enable the
  *Unsafe Browser* is made persistent. The other settings (language,
  keyboard, and other additional settings) will be made persistent in
  Tails 4.9 (July 28).

  [[!img welcome_screen.png link="no" alt="new Welcome Screen feature in the Persistent Storage settings"]]

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.5.1](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-951).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.9.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/68.9.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.6.0. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

# Fixed problems

- Fix the *Find in page* feature of *Thunderbird*. ([[!tails_ticket
  17328]])

- Fix shutting down automatically the laptop when resuming from suspend
  with the Tails USB stick removed. ([[!tails_ticket 16787]])

- Notify always when [[MAC address
  spoofing|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/mac_spoofing]] fails and the
  network interface is disabled. ([[!tails_ticket 17779]])

- Fix the import of OpenPGP public keys in binary format (non armored)
  from the *Files* browser.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

* Only use the following characters in the [[administration
  password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]]:

  - <span class="code">a&ndash;z</span>
  - <span class="code">A&ndash;Z</span>
  - <span class="code">1&ndash;9</span>
  - <span class="code">_@%+=:,./-</span>

  If you use spaces or other accentuated characters, like <span
  class="code">àéïøů</span>, your will not be able to type your
  administration password again in your Tails session, unless you
  type single quotes <span class="code">'</span> around it.

  For example, if you set the administration password:
  <span class="code">née entrepôt über señor</span>, you would have to
  type <span class="code">'née entrepôt über señor'</span>.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17792]])

* The keyboard layout is not applied to the Welcome Screen when
  automatically selected after you changed the language. ([[!tails_ticket 17794]])

  For example, setting the language to French seems to change the
  keyboard layout to French (AZERTY) but this change is not applied to
  the Welcome Screen. This can prevent you from typing the passphrase
  of your Persistent Storage.

  To change the keyboard layout of the Welcome Screen, select your
  keyboard layout manually from the **Keyboard Layout** drop-down menu.
  Do so even if they keyboard layout is automatically selected after you
  changed the language.

* Tails fails to start with the <span class="code">toram</span> boot
  option. ([[!tails_ticket 17800]])

  To start with the <span class="code">toram</span> boot option, specify
  both the <span class="code">toram</span> and the
  <span class="code">fromiso=/dev/true</span> [[boot
  options|doc/advanced_topics/boot_options]].

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.8

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.8.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.8 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.9 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for July 28.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.8">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
