[[!meta date="Wed, 11 Dec 2013 16:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.22 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.22, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.21]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Security fixes
  - Upgrade to Iceweasel 24.2.0esr that fixes a few serious security issues.
  - Stop migrating persistence configuration and access rights. Instead,
    disable all persistence configuration files if the mountpoint has wrong
    access rights.
  - Upgrade to NSS 3.15.3 that fixes a few serious security issues affecting
    the browser.

* Major improvements
  - Switch to Iceweasel 24.2.0esr and Torbutton 1.6.5.
  - Incremental upgrades are ready for beta-testing.

* Bugfixes
  - Fix Vidalia startup.
  - Disable DPMS screen blanking.
  - Fix checking of the persistent volume's ACL.
  - Sanitize more IP and MAC addresses in bug reports.
  - Do not fail USB upgrade when the "tmp" directory exists on the
    destination device.

* Minor improvements
  - Clearer warning when deleting the persistent volume.
  - Use IBus instead of SCIM.
  - Always list optimal keyboard layout in the greeter.
  - Fix on-the-fly translation of the greeter in various languages.
  - Update I2P to 0.9.8.1 and rework its configuration.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* The Unsafe Browser cannot connect to the Internet ([[!tails_ticket
  6479]]). This can be workaround'ed by setting
  `network.proxy.socks_remote_dns` to `false` on the
  [about:config](about:config) web page.
* Keyboard shortcuts use QWERTY mapping instead of AZERTY on French
  keyboard ([[!tails_ticket 6478]]). This may impact other keyboard
  layouts as well.
* TorBrowser takes too long to shutdown ([[!tails_ticket 6480]]).
* TorBrowser proposes to share the microphone with websites
  ([[!tails_ticket 6481]]).
* htpdate uses a different User-Agent than the Tor Browser
  ([[!tails_ticket 6477]]).
* The included Linux 3.10-3 (version 3.10.11-1) kernel has a few known
  security issues.
* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page but first, please consider [[testing the
incremental upgrade|news/test_incremental_upgrades]].

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is
[scheduled](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2013-December/004405.html)
for January 21.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
