[[!meta date="Tue, 22 Jan 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.5 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.4]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- Tor redesigned *Tor Launcher*, the application to configure a [[Tor
  bridge|doc/first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]] or a local proxy.

  [[!img tor-launcher.png link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.5.

- Update *Linux* to 4.14.13 and the microcode firmware for AMD to
  mitigate Spectre.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 52.5.

## Fixed problems

- Fix printing to a PDF in *Tor Browser*. ([[!tails_ticket 13403]]
  and [[!tails_ticket 15024]])

- Fix the opening of the **Applications** menu when the time
  synchronization changed the clock in the past. ([[!tails_ticket 14250]])

- Fix the opening of the documentation included in Tails for many
  non-English languages. ([[!tails_ticket 15160]])

- Fix translations of the time synchronization and "*Tor is ready*"
  notifications. ([[!tails_ticket 13437]])

- Remove the code to migrate from *Claws Mail* that was preventing
  *Thunderbird* to start in some cases. ([[!tails_ticket 12734]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- Debug and error messages appear when starting Tails, including an
  alarming message about a *kernel BUG*.

  These messages do not affect the safety of Tails.

  [[!img logs.png link="no"]]

- In *Tails Installer*, it is only possible to select an ISO image when
  choose **Use a downloaded Tails ISO image** when running Tails in
  English. For other language, the file chooser button remains inactive:

  [[!img broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

- The documentation shipped in Tails doesn't open in *Tor Browser*
  anymore. The warning page of the *Unsafe Browser* also lacks graphical
  design. ([[!tails_ticket 14962]] and [[!tor_bug 24243 desc="Tor #24243"]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.5

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.3 and 3.4 to 3.5.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 3.5.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.6 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 13.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.5">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
