[[!meta date="Wed Dec 3 12:34:56 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.2.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.2.1, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.2]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

  * Security fixes
    - Upgrade Linux to 3.16.7-1.
    - Install Tor Browser 4.0.2 (based on Firefox 31.3.0esr).

  * Bugfixes
    - Restore mouse scrolling in KVM/Spice ([[!tails_ticket 7426]]).
    - Suppress excessive (and leaky!) Torbutton logging
      ([[!tails_ticket 8160]]).
    - Don't break the Unsafe and I2P Browsers after installing
      incremental upgrades ([[!tails_ticket 8152]],
      [[!tails_ticket 8158]]).
    - External links in various applications should now open properly
      in the Tor Browser ([[!tails_ticket 8153]],
      [[!tails_ticket 8186]]).
    - Fix clearsigning of text including non-ASCII characters in
      gpgApplet ([[!tails_ticket 7968]]).

  * Minor improvements
    - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.17-1~deb7u+1.
    - Make GnuPG configuration closer to the best practices
      ([[!tails_ticket 7512]]).
    - Remove TrueCrypt support and document how to open TrueCrypt
      volumes using cryptsetup ([[!tails_ticket 5373]]).

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* It is [[hard to exchange files with the I2P Browser|support/known_issues#i2p_browser]].

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# For users of persistent GnuPG keyrings and configuration

If you have enabled the <span class="guilabel">GnuPG keyrings and
configuration</span> persistence feature and have *upgraded* a Tails
USB stick or SD card installation to Tails 1.2.1, then please follow
these steps to benefit from the updated GnuPG configuration:

1. Boot Tails with
   [[an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] set.

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span>:

    cp /etc/skel/.gnupg/gpg.conf /home/amnesia/.gnupg/gpg.conf

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
January 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
