[[!meta title="Tails 4.9 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 28 Jul 2020 19:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.8]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.5.3](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-953).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.10.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/68.10.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.7.6. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

# Fixed problems

* Allow characters others than <span class="code">A&ndash;Z</span>,
  <span class="code">a&ndash;z</span>, <span class="code">1&ndash;9</span>, and <span class="code">_@%+=:,./-</span> in
  the [[administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].
  ([[!tails_ticket 17792]])

* Apply the keyboard layout that is automatically selected when you change
  the language in the Welcome Screen. ([[!tails_ticket 17794]])

* Fix starting Tails with the <span class="code">toram</span> boot option.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17800]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- USB Wi-Fi adapters with Atheros AR9271 hardware do not work with Linux
  5.7.6. ([[!tails_ticket 17834]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.9

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.9.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.9 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.10 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for August 25.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.9">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
