[[!meta title="Tails 4.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 03 Dec 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.0]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

- Use <https://keys.openpgp.org/>, also available on
  <https://zkaan2xfbuxia2wpf7ofnkbz6r5zdbbvxbunvp5g2iebopbfc4iqmbad.onion/>,
  as the default OpenPGP key server.

  - keys.openpgp.org is more trustworthy than other OpenPGP public key
    servers because it only references an OpenPGP public key after
    sending a confirmation email to the email addresses listed in the
    key.

  - keys.openpgp.org does not distribute third-party signatures, which
    are the signatures on a key that were made by some other key.
    Third-party signatures are the signatures used to create the OpenPGP
    Web of Trust.

  - keys.openpgp.org prevents [OpenPGP certificate
    flooding attacks](https://dkg.fifthhorseman.net/blog/openpgp-certificate-flooding.html),
    which can make your OpenPGP keyring unusable and crash your
    computer.

  To learn more about keys.openpgp.org, read their
  [About](https://keys.openpgp.org/about) and
  [FAQ](https://keys.openpgp.org/about/faq) pages.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 9.0.2.

- Update *Thunderbird* to from 60.9.0 to 68.2.2.

- Replace the [[*TorBirdy*
  extension|doc/anonymous_internet/thunderbird#torbirdy]] with custom
  settings and patches in *Thunderbird* that provide equivalent privacy.

- Update *Enigmail* to [2.1.3](https://enigmail.net/index.php/en/download/changelog),
  which has a simplified setup wizard that automatically creates an
  OpenPGP key for new email accounts.

- Update *Linux* to 5.3.9. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

# Fixed problems

- Add back the **Show Passphrase** check box in *Tails Greeter*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17177]])

  [[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/persistence.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Fix the display of the troubleshooting error when GDM fails to start.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17200]])

  [[!img support/known_issues/graphics/error.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Add back the option to **Open in Terminal** when doing right-click (on
  Mac, click with two fingers) in a folder in the *Files* browser.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17186]])

- Make the installation of additional software more reliable. ([[!tails_ticket 17203]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.0 to 4.1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 4.1:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.2 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 7.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
