[[!meta title="Tails 4.0 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 22 Oct 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We are especially proud to present you Tails 4.0, the first version of
Tails based on Debian 10 (Buster). It brings new versions of most of
the software included in Tails and some important usability and
performance improvements. Tails 4.0 introduces more changes than any
other version since years.

This release also fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.16]]. You should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and upgrades

## Major changes to included software

- Replace *KeePassX* with [*KeePassXC*](https://keepassxc.org/), which
  is more actively developed.

  [[!img keepassxc.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Update *OnionShare* from 0.9.2 to 1.3.2, which includes a lot of usability
  improvements.

  [[!img onionshare.png link="no" alt=""]]

<a id="tor-browser"></a>

- Update *Tor Browser* to 9.0:

  - A gray border, called *letter boxing*, is now displayed around the
    content of web pages when you resize the window of Tor Browser.

    [[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/letter-boxing.png link="no" alt=""]]

    Letter boxing prevents websites from identifying your browser based
    on the size of its window. Letter boxing replaces the yellow warning that
    was displayed until now when maximizing Tor Browser.

  - The onion icon has been removed from the top bar.

    To switch to a new identity, choose
    <span class="menuchoice">
      <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png class=symbolic link="no" alt=""]]</span>&nbsp;▸
      <span class="guimenuitem">New Identity</span></span>.

  - The icon of *Tor Browser* is green instead of purple.

<a id="mat"></a>

- Update *MAT* from 0.6.1 to [0.8.0](https://0xacab.org/jvoisin/mat2/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

  *MAT* has no graphical interface of its own anymore.

  To clean the metadata of a file:

  1. Open the *Files* browser and navigate to the file that you want to
     clean.

  1. Right-click (on Mac, click with two fingers) on the file.

  1. Choose **Remove metadata**.

  [[!img mat.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Update *Linux* to 5.3.2. This should also improve the
  support for newer hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

<a id="electrum"></a>

- Update *Electrum* from 3.2.3 to [3.3.8](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES).
  *Electrum* works again in Tails.

- Update *Enigmail* to 2.0.12 and *gnupg* to 2.2.12, which mitigate
  [OpenPGP certificate flooding](https://dkg.fifthhorseman.net/blog/openpgp-certificate-flooding.html).

- Upgrade most other software, for example:

  - *Audacity* from 2.1.2 to [2.2.2](https://wiki.audacityteam.org/wiki/Audacity_Versions#whatsnew)

  - *GIMP* from 2.8.18 to [2.10.8](https://docs.gimp.org/2.10/en/gimp-introduction-whats-new.html)

  - *Inkscape* from 0.92.1 to [0.92.4](https://inkscape.org/release/inkscape-0.92.4/)

  - *LibreOffice* from 5.2.7 to [6.1.5](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/ReleaseNotes/6.0)

  - *git* from 2.11.0 to 2.20.1

  - *Tor* to 0.4.1.6

- Remove *Scribus*.

  You can install *Scribus* again using the
  *[[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]* feature.

## Usability improvements to *Tails Greeter*

We improved various aspects of the usability of *Tails Greeter*,
especially for non-English users:

- To make it easier to select a language, we curated the list of
  proposed languages by removing the ones that had too little
  translations to be useful. We also clarified how Chinese is listed by having
  different entries for simplified and traditional Chinese.

  [[!img languages.png link="no" alt=""]]

- We simplified the list of keyboard layouts.

- We fixed the **Formats** setting, which was not being applied.

- We prevented additional settings to be applied when clicking on
  **Cancel** or **Back**.

- We fixed the opening of help pages in other languages than English,
  when available.

## Performance and usability improvements

- Tails 4.0 starts 20% faster.

- Tails 4.0 requires about 250 MB less of RAM.

- Tails 4.0 is 47 MB smaller to download than Tails 3.16, despite all
  these changes.

- Add support for *Thunderbolt* devices.

- The screen keyboard is easier to use.

  [[!img screen-keyboard.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Make it possible to show the password of the persistent storage when
  creating one.

- Add support for USB tethering from iPhone.

## New documentation pages

- [[How to securely erasing an entire
  device|doc/encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion#erase-device]],
  including USB sticks and SSDs.

- [[How to backup your persistent
  volume|doc/first_steps/persistence/copy]].

## Other changes

- Use the default bookmarks from *Tor Browser* instead of our own default bookmarks. ([[!tails_ticket 15895]])

- Remove the *Home* launcher from the desktop. ([[!tails_ticket 16799]])

- Remove the default accounts in *Pidgin*. ([[!tails_ticket 16744]])

# Fixed problems

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

- Allow opening persistent volumes from other Tails USB sticks. ([[!tails_ticket 16789]])

- Fix the delivery of WhisperBack reports. ([[!tails_ticket 17110]])

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

<!--

Copy the known issues from the previous version if they haven't been
solved or move them to /support/known_issues if more appropriate.

-->

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.0

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

Automatic upgrades are not available to 4.0.

All users must do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 4.0:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.1 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 3.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.0">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
