[[!meta date="Thu, 07 Apr 2011 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.7, is out. It is built on
top of [Debian Squeeze](https://www.debian.org/).

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable changes include:

* Tor 0.2.1.30

* Protecting against memory recovery: new, safer way to wipe memory on
  shutdown which is now also used when the boot media is physically
  removed.

* Hardware support
 - printers: install more printer drivers, allow the default user to
   manage more kinds of printers
 - 3G: support mobile broadband devices such as 3G USB dongles
 - wireless: install Atheros and Broadcom firmwares
 - scanner and multi-function peripherals: better support

* Iceweasel
 - install the HTTPS Everywhere extension
 - many Anonymity Set preservation enhancements, mostly inspired by
   the Tor Browser Bundle configuration
 - support FTP, thanks to FoxyProxy

* Other software
 - user-friendly encryption support: install gnome-disk-utility
   (Palimpsest) and Seahorse plugins
 - add opt-in i2p support with Iceweasel integration through FoxyProxy
 - optionally install TrueCrypt at boot time to allow users of the
   (old and now unsupported) *Incognito* live system to access the
   data on previously created media; this is *not* meant to be used to
   create new TrueCrypt media ([[more information|doc/encryption_and_privacy/truecrypt]])
 - make better use of battery-powered hardware
 - replace xsane with simple-scan which is part of GNOME and way
   easier to use
 - install scribus-ng instead of scribus: more features, less bugs

* Firewall
 - drop incoming packets by default
 - [[!tails_ticket 5852 desc="forbid queries to DNS resolvers on the LAN"]]
 - set output policy to drop (defense-in-depth)

* Miscellaneous
 - fromiso= bugfixes
 - configure keyboard layout accordingly to the chosen language for
   Italian and Portuguese
 - more robust HTP time synchronization wrt. network failures;
   display the logs when the clock synchronization fails
 - disable automatic media mounting and opening to protect against
   a class of attacks that was recently put under the spotlights
 - GnuPG: default to stronger digest algorithms

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.7)
for technical details.

# I want to try it!

[[Download it, seed it!|install]]

# Can I use it on a pre-Intel Mac computer?

Tails images with *i386* in their name work on the Intel x86
architecture only. However, we've been working towards releasing a
Tails image suitable for the pre-Intel Macs hardware (PowerPC
architecture). Stay tuned, it will be prepared and made available
soonish.

# A glimpse towards the future

Were do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our brand new [["how to
contribute" documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can
contribute to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
