[[!meta title="Tails 4.6 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 05 May 2020 20:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.5]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.0.10](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-9010).

- Add support for [[!wikipedia Universal 2nd Factor]] USB security keys.

- Update the list of applications in the *Favorites* applications
  submenu.

  To make it easier for new users to discover some of the core features
  of Tails, we added *Configure persistent volume*, *Tails
  documentation*, *WhisperBack Error Reporting*, and *Tails Installer*
  and removed *Terminal*.

  [[!img favorites.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Change the input method for Japanese from Anthy to Mozc.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16719]])

  [[!img japanese.png link="no" alt="Keyboard menu&nbsp;▸ Japanese (Mozc)&nbsp;▸ Katakana"]]

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.6

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.6.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.6 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.7 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 2.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.6">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
