[[!meta date="Tue, 24 Jan 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.10 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.9.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - We installed [[*OnionShare*|doc/anonymous_internet/onionshare]],
    a tool for anonymous file sharing.

    [[!img version_2.10/onionshare.png link="no"]]

  - We enabled the
    [[circuit view|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#circuit_view]]
    in *Tor Browser*.

    [[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/circuit_view.png link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade *Tor* to 0.2.9.9.

  - Upgrade *Tor Browser* to 6.5.

  - Upgrade *Linux* to 4.8. This should improve the support for newer
    hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.)

  - Upgrade *Icedove* to 45.6.0.

  - Replace *AdBlock Plus* with *uBlock Origin*.

  - Configure the *APT* package manage to use Debian's Onion services.

  - Install the *AMDGPU* display driver. This should improve the
    support for newer AMD graphics adapters.

  - Renamed the *Boot Loader Menu* entries from "Live" to "Tails", and
    replaced the confusing "failsafe" wording with "Troubleshooting
    Mode".

  - Add support for [[!wikipedia exFAT]].

  - Remove *Nyx* (previously called *arm*).

  - Rewrite *Tor control port filter* entirely. Now Tails can safely
    support *OnionShare*, the circuit view of *Tor Browser*, and
    similar. This also enabled Whonix to replace their own similar
    piece of software with this one.

## Fixed problems

  - Made *OnionCircuits* compatible with the *Orca* screen reader.

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.10

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.7 and 2.9.1 to 2.10.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 2.10.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.11 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 3rd.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=2.10">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
