[[!meta date="Tue, 13 Jun 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.0 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We are especially proud to present you Tails 3.0, the first version of Tails
based on Debian 9 (Stretch). It brings a completely new startup and shutdown
experience, a lot of polishing to the desktop, security improvements in depth,
and major upgrades to a lot of the included software.

Debian 9 (Stretch) will be [released on June
17](https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2017/05/msg00002.html).
It is the first time that we are releasing a new version of Tails almost
at the same time as the version of Debian it is based upon. This was an important
objective for us as it is beneficial to both our users and users of
Debian in general and strengthens our [[relationship with
upstream|contribute/relationship_with_upstream]]:

- Our users can benefit from the cool changes in Debian earlier.
- We can detect and fix issues in the new version of Debian while it is
  still in development so that our work also benefits Debian earlier.

This release also fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.12]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

<a id="greeter"></a>

### New startup and shutdown experience

- *Tails Greeter*, the application to configure Tails at startup, has
  been completely redesigned for ease of use:
  - All options are available from a single window.
  - Language and region settings are displayed first to benefit our
    international audience.
  - Accessibility features can be enabled from the start.

  This has been a long process, started three years ago with the UX team of
  [NUMA Paris](https://paris.numa.co/) and lead only by volunteers. Join us on
  [[tails-ux@boum.org|about/contact#tails-ux]] to participate in future
  designs!

  [[!img tails-greeter.png link="no"]]

- The shutdown experience has also been redesigned in order to be:
  - More reliable. It was crashing on various computers with
    unpredictable results.
  - More discrete. The screen is now totally black to look less
    suspicious.

  Technically speaking, it is now using the [[freed memory poisoning
  feature|contribute/design/memory_erasure]] of the Linux kernel.

### Polishing the desktop

- We switched to the default black theme of GNOME which has a more
  modern and discrete look:

  [[!img black-theme.png link="no"]]

- Tails 3.0 benefits from many other small improvements to the GNOME desktop:

  - *Files* has been redesigned to reduce clutter and make the interface easier
    to use. Several new features have been added, such as the ability to
    rename multiple files at the same time and the ability to extract
    compressed files without needing a separate application.

    [[!img batch-rename.png link="no"]]

  - The notification area has been improved to allow easy access to previous
    notifications. Notification popups have also been repositioned to make them
    more noticeable.

    [[!img message-list.png link="no"]]

  - Shortcut windows have been added to help you discover keyboard shortcuts in
    GNOME applications.

    For example, press <span class="keycap">Ctrl+F1</span> in *Files* to
    display its shortcut window.

### Security improvements in depth

- Tails 3.0 works on
  <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia x86-64 desc="64-bit computers"]]</span>
  only and not on 32-bit computers anymore. Dropping hardware support,
  even for a small portion of our user base, is always a hard decision
  to make but being 64-bit only has important security and reliability
  benefits. For example, to protect against some types of security
  exploits, support for the <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia NX_bit]]</span>
  is compulsory and most binaries are hardened with
  <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia Position-independent_code desc="PIE"]]</span>
  which allows <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia Address_space_layout_randomization desc="ASLR"]]</span>.

  [[!toggle id="check" text="Check if your computer is 64-bit or 32-bit."]]

[[!toggleable id="check" text="""
1. Start any Tails version.

1. To open a terminal choose
   <span class="menuchoice"><span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal</span></span>.

1. Execute the following command to display system information:

           uname -m

   - If the output is `x86_64`, your computer is 64-bit and Tails 3.0
     should work.

   - If the output is `i686`, your computer is 32-bit and Tails 3.0 will
     not work.
"""]]

- Update *Tor Browser* to 7.0.1 (based on Firefox 52 ESR) which is
  [multiprocess](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Firefox/Multiprocess_Firefox)
  and paves the way to [content
  sandboxing](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Sandbox). This should
  make it harder to exploit security vulnerabilities in the browser.

### Major upgrades to included software

- Most included software has been upgraded in Debian 9, for example:
  - *KeePassX* from 0.4.3 to 2.0.3<br/>
    Your password database will be
    [[migrated automatically|doc/encryption_and_privacy/manage_passwords#migration]] to the new format of *KeePassX* 2.
  - *LibreOffice* from 4.3.3 to 5.2.6
  - *Inkscape* from 0.48.5 to 0.92.1
  - *Audacity* from 2.0.6 to 2.1.2
  - *Enigmail* from 1.8.2 to 1.9.6
  - *MAT* from 0.5.2 to 0.6.1
  - *Dasher* from 4.11 to 5.0
  - *git* from 2.1.4 to 2.11.0

## Upgrades and changes

- The *Pidgin* tray icon was removed from the top navigation bar and
  replaced by popup notifications.

  [[!img pidgin.png link="no"]]

- *Icedove* was renamed as *Thunderbird*, its original name, inheriting
  this change from Debian.

- The search box and the search feature of the address bar of the
  *Unsafe Browser* were removed. ([[!tails_ticket 12540]])

- The read-only option of the persistent storage was removed. It was
  used by very few users, created confusion, and lead to unexpected
  issues. ([[!tails_ticket 12093]])

## Fixed problems

- The new *X.Org* display server in Tails 3.0 should work on more newer
  graphical hardware.

- UEFI boot has been fixed on some machines (ThinkPad X220).

- MAC spoofing has been fixed on some network interfaces (TP-Link WN725N). ([[!tails_ticket 12362]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- *Tails Installer* erroneously rejects some USB sticks. When this
  happens, a message that starts with "Skipping non-removable device"
  is displayed ([[!tails_ticket 12696]]). To workaround this problem:

  1. Start the operating system you want to use *Tails Installer* on.<br />
     If you want to use *Tails Installer* in Tails 3.0,
     [[set up an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

  2. Choose
     <span class="menuchoice">
       <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
       <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
     </span>
     to open a terminal with administration rights.

  3. Execute the following command to fix the bug in *Tails Installer*:

     <span class="code">
     perl -pi -E 's,media_removable,removable,' /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/tails_installer/creator.py
     </span>

  4. *Tails Installer* should not expose this problem again… until you
     restart Tails, as these changes will be reverted upon restart.

- Tails fails to start on some computers with [[Intel graphical
  hardware|support/known_issues#xorg-driver]].

- Some users have reported problems during the migration from *Icedove*
  to *Thunderbird*, in particular that *Thunderbird* doesn't start.

  If this happens to you, please
  [[send us a *WhisperBack* report|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/#whisperback]]
  without restarting Tails.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.0

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, all users have to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 3.0.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.1 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for August 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.0">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
