[[!meta date="Tue December 13 12:34:56 2016"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.9 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.7.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

<div class="caution">

<p>
<strong>
Security flaw when installing additional software in 2.9 and earlier
</strong>
</p>

<p>
Right before releasing Tails 2.9, we learned about
<a href='https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-1252'>
a critical security issue in APT</a>, the software packages
system used by Tails and Debian.
</p>

<p>
To remain safe while using Tails 2.9:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
Do not use the <i>Synaptic</i> package manager.
</li>
<li>
Do not use the <tt>apt-get</tt> or <tt>apt</tt> commands in the terminal.
</li>
<li>
Do not use the [[<i>Additional software packages</i> persistence
feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#additional_software]].
</li>
</ul>
  
<p>
We will release Tails 2.9.1 the next few days with a
fix for this issue.
</p>

</div>

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

  - Upgrade *Tor* to 0.2.8.10.

  - Upgrade *Tor Browser* to 6.0.8.

  - Upgrade *Icedove* to [45.5.1](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/45.1.1/releasenotes/).

  - Upgrade *obfs4proxy* to 0.0.7.

  - Switch to *DuckDuckGo* as the default search engine in *Tor Browser*.
    The previous default search engine, *Disconnect.me*, has already been
    redirecting to *Duck Duck Go* for some time.

## Fixed problems

  - Fix Tails not starting in *VirtualBox* by upgrading the *Guest Additions*
    to version 5.1.8. ([[!tails_ticket 11965]])

  - Document that [[**I/O APIC** is required to start Tails in
    *VirtualBox*|support/known_issues#vb-apic]].

  - Remove the error when starting *Videos* that appeared in Tails 2.7 by
    fixing the *AppArmor* profile of *Totem*. ([[!tails_ticket 11984]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.9

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, an automatic upgrade is available from 2.7 and 2.7.1 to 2.9.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.9.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 2.10 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 24.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate#2.9]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
