[[!meta date="Fri Dec 12 12:34:56 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.2.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.2.2, is out.

This release is an emergency release that changes the root certificate
which is used to verify automatic upgrades.

On January 3rd, the SSL certificate of our website hosting provider,
boum.org, will expire. The new certificate will be issued by a different
certificate authority. This certificate authority is verified by the
automatic upgrade mechanism of Tails.

As a consequence, versions
previous to 1.2.2 won't be able to do the next automatic upgrade to
version 1.2.3 and will receive an error message from *Tails Upgrader*
when starting Tails after January 3rd.

All users should do a
[[manual upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade#manual]] (see below
[[why|version_1.2.2#why_manual]]) before January 3rd. Users feeling confident in
that they will remember to manually check Tails website for the next
Tails release on January 14 may skip the 1.2.2 release.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

  * Minor improvements

    - Change the SSL certificate authority expected by automatic
      upgrades for https://tails.boum.org/.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

<a name="why_manual"></a>

* Unfortunately a strange bug in Tails 1.2.1 ([[!tails_ticket 8449]])
  prevents us from providing an incremental upgrade from 1.2.1 to
  1.2.2 so a [[manual upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade#manual]] is
  required. If you choose to skip the 1.2.2 release you will have to
  do a manual upgrade to Tails 1.2.3.

In addition, the same issues as in 1.2.1 apply to this release:

* It is [[hard to exchange files with the I2P Browser|support/known_issues#i2p_browser]].

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# For users of persistent GnuPG keyrings and configuration

If you have enabled the <span class="guilabel">GnuPG keyrings and
configuration</span> persistence feature and have *upgraded* a Tails
USB stick or SD card installation to Tails 1.2.1 or 1.2.2, then please follow
these steps to benefit from the updated GnuPG configuration:

1. Boot Tails with
   [[an administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]] set.

1. Run this command in a <span class="application">Root
   Terminal</span>:

    cp /etc/skel/.gnupg/gpg.conf /home/amnesia/.gnupg/gpg.conf

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
January 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
