[[!meta title="Tails 4.13 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 17 Nov 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.12]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.5](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-1005).

  *Tor Browser* 10.0.5 fixes the [[critical vulnerability discovered last week
  in the JavaScript engine|security/mcallgetproperty]].

- Update *Thunderbird* from 68.12 to [78.4.2](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.4.2/releasenotes/).

  *Thunderbird* 78 replaces the *Enigmail* extension with built-in support for
  OpenPGP encryption.

  If you used *Enigmail* before Tails 4.13, follow our [[instructions to
  migrate from *Enigmail* to *Thunderbird*
  78|doc/anonymous_internet/thunderbird/openpgp_migration]].

- Add a button to restart Tails at the end of creating the Persistent Storage.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16384]])

- Only include translations for languages that are available in the Welcome
  Screen. This reduces the size of the download by 5%. ([[!tails_ticket 17139]])

- Make the root directory of the Persistent Storage only readable by the `root`
  user. ([[!tails_ticket 7465]])

  Users of the Dotfiles feature of the Persistent Storage can choose
  **Places&nbsp;▸ Dotfiles** to open the
  */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles folder* in the *Files*
  browser.

- Enable TCP timestamps. This might increase stability on slower Internet
  connections. ([[!tails_ticket 17491]])

<h1 id="fixes">Fixed problems</h1>

- Fix the **Upgrade** button of *Tails Installer* when running Croatian,
  Danish, French, Hebrew, Macedonian, Simplified Chinese, and Turkish.
  ([[!tails_ticket 17982]])

- Allow raising the sound volume above 100%. ([[!tails_ticket 17322]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.13</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.2 or later to 4.13.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.13 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.14 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 15.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.13">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
