[[!meta date="Wed March 19 12:34:56 2017"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 2.12 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_2.11]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- We installed again *GNOME Sound Recorder* to provide a very simple
  application for recording sound in addition to the most complex *Audacity*.
  Sound clips recorded using *GNOME Sound Recorder* are saved to the *Recordings* folder.

  [[!img sound-recorder.png link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

- We removed [*I2P*](//geti2p.net/), an alternative anonymity network, because
  we unfortunately have failed to find a developer to maintain *I2P* in Tails.
  Maintaining software like *I2P* well-integrated in Tails takes time and
  effort and our team is too busy with other priorities.

- Upgrade *Linux* to 4.9.0.

## Fixed problems

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 2.12

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 2.10 and 2.11 to 2.12.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 2.12.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Our next release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for June 13:

- If Debian Stretch is released after June 13, our next release will be 2.13.
- Otherwise, we will try to publish 3.0 before June 13 at the same time as
  Debian Stretch which release schedule has not been announced yet. You can
  already [[test a beta version of Tails 3.0|news/test_3.0-beta3]].

XXX: Warn intrigeri about this link and the unclear order between beta4 and 2.12.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate#2.12]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
