[[!meta date="Fri, 11 Nov 2011 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.9 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.9, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Tor
  - Upgrade to 0.2.2.34. This fixes CVE-2011-2768 and CVE-2011-2769
    which prompted for manual updates for users of Tails 0.8.1.
  - Suppress Tor's warning about applications doing their own DNS
    lookups. Some users have reported concerns about these warnings,
    but it should be noted that they are completely harmless inside
    Tails as its system DNS resolver is Torified.

* Linux 3.0.0-6, which fixed a great number of bugs and security issues.

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade to 3.5.16-11 ((fixes CVE-2011-3647, CVE-2011-3648,
    CVE-2011-3650).
  - Torbutton: upgrade to 1.4.4.1-1, including support for the
    in-browser "New identity" feature.
  - FireGPG: upgrade to 0.8-1+tails2. Users are notified that the
    FireGPG Text Editor is the only safe place for performing
    cryptographic operations, and these operations has been disabled
    in other places. Performing them outside of the editor opens up
    several severe attacks through JavaScript (e.g. leaking plaintext
    when decrypting, signing messages written by the attacker).
  - Replace CS Lite with Cookie Monster for cookie management. Cookie
    Monster has an arguably nicer interface, is being actively
    maintained and is packaged in Debian.

* Software
  - Install [MAT](https://mat.boum.org/), the Metadata Anonymisation
    Toolkit. Its goal is to remove file metadata which otherwise
    could leak information about you in the documents and media files
    you publish. This is the result of a Tails developer's suggestion
    for GSoC 2011, although it ended up being mentored by The Tor
    Project.
  - Upgrade WhisperBack to 1.5~rc1. Users are guided how to send their
    bug reports through alternative channels upon errors sending
    them. This will make bug reporting easier when there's no network
    connection available.
  - Upgrade TrueCrypt to 7.1.

* Miscellaneous
  - The date and time setting system was completely reworked. This
    should prevent time syncing issues that may prevent Tor from
    working properly, which some users have reported. The new system
    will not leave a fingerprintable network signature, like the old
    system did. Previously that signature could be used to identify
    who is using Tails (but *not* deanonymize them).
  - Erase memory at shutdown: run many instances of the memory
    wiper. Due to architectural limitations of i386 a process cannot
    access all memory at the same time, and hence a single memory wipe
    instance cannot clear all memory.
  - Saner keyboard layouts for Arabic and Russian.
  - Use Plymouth text-only splash screen at boot time.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.9)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# Known issue

The memory erasure on Tails shutdown cannot guarantee that all memory
in the 2 GB to 4 GB region is wiped. The improvements made in Tails
0.9 should at least make the situation better than previously.

# A glimpse towards the future

Were do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
