[[!meta date="Tue, 26 Sep 2017 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.1]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- We added support for PPPoE and dial-up Internet connections.

  Please [tell us](mailto:tails-testers@boum.org) if this still doesn't work
  for you!

- We installed [*BookletImposer*](http://kjo.herbesfolles.org/bookletimposer/)
  to convert linear PDF documents into booklets, and vice-versa.

  [[!img bookletimposer.png link="no"]]

- We added *GNOME Screen Keyboard* to replace *Florence*, the previous virtual
  keyboard, which had [many issues](https://labs.riseup.net/code/projects/tails/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&set_filter=1&f%5B%5D=cf_18&op%5Bcf_18%5D=%3D&v%5Bcf_18%5D%5B%5D=On-screen+keyboard&f%5B%5D=subject&op%5Bsubject%5D=%7E&v%5Bsubject%5D%5B%5D=Florence&f%5B%5D=fixed_version_id&op%5Bfixed_version_id%5D=%3D&v%5Bfixed_version_id%5D%5B%5D=294&f%5B%5D=&c%5B%5D=status&c%5B%5D=priority&c%5B%5D=fixed_version&c%5B%5D=subject&c%5B%5D=category&c%5B%5D=cf_15&c%5B%5D=assigned_to&c%5B%5D=cf_9&group_by=&t%5B%5D=).

  [[!img screen_keyboard.png link="no"]]

## Upgrades and changes

- Upgrade *Linux* to 4.12.12. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware, especially Nvidia Maxwell graphics card.

- Upgrade *Thunderbird* from 45.8 to 52.3.

### User experience

- Require a 8 GB USB stick to install Tails. 4 GB USB sticks that are already
  installed can still be upgraded.

- *Tails Installer* now detects when the target USB stick has Tails
  installed already and automatically proposes to upgrade.
  This made possible to remove the initial splash screen.

  [[!img install/inc/screenshots/tails_installer_in_tails.png link="no"]]

### Security

- Disable *Bluetooth* to protect against the [*BlueBorne*
  attack](https://www.armis.com/blueborne/). [[!tails_ticket 14655]]

  Please [let us know](mailto:tails-testers@boum.org) if this makes it hard for
  you to use Tails!

- Increase the randomization of <span class="definition">[[!wikipedia
  Address_space_layout_randomization desc="ASLR"]]</span> to the maximum.
  [[!tails_ticket 11840]]

- Deny access to the D-Bus service of *Pidgin* to prevent other applications to
  access and modify its configuration. [[!tails_ticket 14612]].

## Fixed problems

- Fix the import of secret OpenPGP keys in *Password and Keys*.
  [[!tails_ticket 12733]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.2

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.0 and 3.1 to 3.2
  (but not from 3.0.1 due to [[!tails_ticket 13426]]).

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.2.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.3 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for November 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.2">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
