[[!meta date="Tue, 13 Mar 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.6 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.5]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

- You can now lock your screen by clicking on the
  <span class="button">[[!img lib/network-wireless-encrypted.png alt="" class="symbolic" link="no"]]</span>
  button in the system menu.

  [[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/system.png link=no alt="System menu"]]

  - If you set up an [[administration password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]]
    when starting Tails, you can unlock your screen with your administration
    password.

  - Otherwise, you can set up a password to unlock your screen when locking your
    screen for the first time.

    [[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/screen-locker.png alt="Set a password to unlock your screen" link="no"]]

- We improved a lot the backend of the [[**Additional Software**
  persistence feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#additional_software]].
  Your additional software is now:

  - Installed in the background after the session starts instead of
    blocking the opening of the desktop.
  - Always installed even if you are offline.

- Install
  [pdf-redact-tools](https://github.com/firstlookmedia/pdf-redact-tools/blob/master/README.md),
  a command line tool to clean metadata and redact PDF files by
  converting them to PNG images.

- An error message indicating the name of the graphics card is now
  displayed when Tails fails to start GNOME.

## Upgrades and changes

- The **Tails documentation** launcher on the desktop now opens the
  documentation on our website if you are online.

- Install drivers for the [[!wikipedia Video_Acceleration_API]] to
  improve the display of videos on many graphics cards.

- Upgrade *Electrum* from 2.7.9 to [3.0.6](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/3.0.x/RELEASE-NOTES).

- Upgrade *Linux* to 4.15.0.

- Upgrade *Tor* to 0.3.2.10.

- Upgrade *Thunderbird* [52.6.0](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/52.6.0/releasenotes/).

  We also activated the *AppArmor* profile of *Thunderbird* from Debian
  to [[confine *Thunderbird* for security|contribute/design/application_isolation]].

- Rewrite some internal scripts from shell scripting to Python, thanks
  to [GoodCrypto](https://goodcrypto-private-server.sourceforge.io/).

## Fixed problems

- Remove the display of debug and error messages when starting.

  [[!img version_3.5/logs.png link="no"]]

- Fix the ISO image selection being unavailable in *Tails Installer* in
  languages other than English. ([[!tails_ticket 15233]])

  [[!img version_3.5/broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

- Fix *OpenPGP Applet* being unresponsive when decrypting a lot of text.
  ([[!tails_ticket 6398]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- <span class="application">Tails Verification</span>, our browser
  extension to verify Tails downloads, is broken in Tails 3.6. Please
  use it from Firefox, Chrome, or Tor Browser outside of Tails.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15434]])

- <span class="application">Enigmail</span> is unable to download
  OpenPGP keys for new contacts if you have the
  <span class="guilabel">GnuPG</span> persistence feature activated. You can still download OpenPGP keys
  using <span class="application">Passwords and Keys</span>.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15395]])

- This release is not reproducible, due to various python files in /usr/local
  having different timestamps. ([[!tails_ticket 15400]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.6

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

<a id="upgrade"></a>

- We do not provide automatic upgrades from older Tails installations for
  this release, as we've hit an old bug while generating the necessary files
  ([[!tails_ticket 13426]]). You have to [[upgrade manually|upgrade]].

  If you are doing a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, it is only possible to select an
  ISO image when running Tails in English. For other languages, the
  file chooser button remains inactive:

  [[!img news/version_3.5/broken-file-chooser.png link="no"]]

  To do a manual upgrade from Tails 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, or 3.5, you can either:

  - Restart Tails in English.

  - Start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> in
    English from the command line:

    <pre>LANG=en_US tails-installer</pre>

- [[Download Tails 3.6.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.7 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.6">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
