[[!meta title="Tails 4.4.1 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 23 Mar 2020 20:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix security vulnerabilities in *Tor
Browser* and *Tor*.

You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

## Included software

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.0.7](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-907), which 
  prevents [[JavaScript from sometimes being enabled in the *Safest* security
  level of Tor Browser|news/javascript_sometimes_enabled_in_safest]].

- Update *Tor* to [0.4.2.7](https://blog.torproject.org/new-releases-03510-0419-0427),
  which fixes TROVE-2020-002, a major denial-of-service vulnerability that
  affects both Tor relays and clients. Using this vulnerability, an attacker
  could cause Tor to consume a huge amount of CPU, disrupting its operations
  for several seconds or minutes, and create patterns that could aid in traffic
  analysis.

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.6.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/68.6.0/releasenotes/).

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.4.1

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2, 4.2.2, 4.3, and 4.4 to 4.4.1.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.4.1 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for April 7.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.4.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
