[[!meta title="Tails 4.3 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 11 Feb 2020 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_4.2.2]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# New features

- We included the `trezor` package, which provides a command line tool
  to use a Trezor hardware wallet for cryptocurrencies.

# Changes and updates

- Update *Tor Browser* to [9.0.5](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-905).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [68.4.1](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/thunderbird/1.2.3/releasenotes/).

- Update *Linux* to 5.4.13. This should improve the support for newer
  hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Update *Tor* to 0.4.2.6.

- Update the *VirtualBox Guest Additions* to 6.1.2.
 
# Fixed problems

- Fix the progress bar and prevent closing the window while an upgrade
  is being applied. ([[!tails_ticket 16603]])

  [[!img upgrading.png link="no" alt=""]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 4.3

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 4.2 and 4.2.2 to 4.3.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 4.3:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 4.4 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 10.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.3">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
