[[!meta date="Tue, 21 May 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.14 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.13.2]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Linux* to 4.19.37 and most firmware packages. This should
  improve the support for newer hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Enable all available mitigations for the MDS (Microarchitectural Data Sampling)
  attacks and disable [[!wikipedia Simultaneous_multithreading desc="SMT"]]
  (simultaneous multithreading) on all vulnerable processors to fix the
  [RIDL, Fallout](https://mdsattacks.com/) and
  [ZombieLoad](https://zombieloadattack.com/) security vulnerabilities.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.5.

- Remove the following applications:

  - Desktop applications
    - *Gobby*
    - *Pitivi*
    - *Traverso*

  - Command-line tools
    - `hopenpgp-tools`
    - `keyringer`
    - `monkeysign`
    - `monkeysphere`
    - `msva-perl`
    - `paperkey`
    - `pwgen`
    - `ssss`
    - `pdf-redact-tools`

  You can install these applications again using the
  *[[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]* feature.

  Thanks to the removal of these less popular applications in 3.14 and the removal
  of some language packs in 3.13.2, Tails 3.14 is 39 MB smaller than 3.13.

<a id="noscript"></a>

## Fixed problems

- Add back the *OpenPGP Applet* and *Pidgin* notification icons to the top
  navigation bar.

  [[!img version_3.13.2/top-navigation-bar.png link="no"]]

- Fix *NoScript* being deactivated when restarting *Tor Browser*.

  <div class="note">
  <p>*NoScript* is removed from the set of icons displayed by default in
  *Tor Browser*. This is how *Tor Browers* looks in Tails 3.14.</p>

  [[!img tor-browser.png alt="" link="no"]]

  <p>To see the list of add-ons that are enabled, choose <span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="" class=symbolic link="no"]]</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Add-ons</span>.
  </div>

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

### Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We are still investigating the issue, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.14

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 3.12, 3.12.1, 3.13, 3.13.1, and 3.13.2 to 3.14.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.14:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.15 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for July 9.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.14">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
