[[!meta date="Sat, 19 Dec 2015 16:33:34 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.8.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.8]]. All users must
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Tor Browser to [5.0.6](https://gitweb.torproject.org/builders/tor-browser-bundle.git/tree/Bundle-Data/Docs/ChangeLog.txt?h=maint-5.0&id=tbb-5.0.6-build1)

## Fixed problems

- Fix time synchronization in bridge mode.

# Known issues

* Automatic upgrades are much slower to apply than before.
  Expect the upgrade to take around an hour *after* the download is
  finished. See [[!tails_ticket 10757]] for details.

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[install]] or [[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade/]] page.

If your Tails does not
boot after an automatic upgrade, please [[upgrade your Tails
manually|doc/first_steps/upgrade#manual]].

# For users of a persistent Electrum Bitcoin client

If you have enabled the <span class="guilabel">Bitcoin client</span>
(<span class="application">Electrum</span>) persistence feature and
have *upgraded* a Tails USB stick installation to Tails 1.8.1, then
please follow these steps in order to make Electrum able to connect
to the network:

1. Make sure <span class="application">Electrum</span> is not running.

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice"><span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Terminal</span></span> to open a terminal.

1. Execute the following command to migrate the configuration:

       echo '{"auto_connect": true, "proxy": "socks5:localhost:9050"}' > ~/.electrum/config

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 26.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] ([[donating|donate]] is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
