[[!meta date="Tue, 5 Sep 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.9 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails 3.9 is the biggest update of Tails this year!

It includes two new features on which we have been working for more than a year:

* *Additional Software*
* *VeraCrypt* integration

This release also fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.8]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

### Additional Software

You can now install additional software automatically when starting Tails.

When installing an additional Debian package from Tails, you can decide to
install it automatically every time:

[[!img doc/first_steps/additional_software/add-additional-software.png link="no" alt="Add vlc to your additional software? 'Install Only Once' or 'Install Every Time'"]]

To check your list of additional software packages, choose
**Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System Tool**&nbsp;▸ **Additional Software**.

[[!img doc/first_steps/additional_software/additional-software.png link="no" alt=""]]

<div class="caution">

<p>The packages included in Tails are carefully tested for security.
Installing additional packages might break the security built in Tails, so be
careful with what you install.</p>

</div>

[[Read our documentation on installing additional software.|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]

### VeraCrypt integration

To unlock *VeraCrypt* volume in Tails, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System
Tool**&nbsp;▸ **Unlock VeraCrypt Volumes**.

[[!img /doc/encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt/unlock-veracrypt-volumes-with-partition.png link="no" alt=""]]

The integration of *VeraCrypt* in the *Files* and *Disks* utilities was done
upstream in GNOME and will be available outside of Tails in Debian 10 (Buster)
and Ubuntu 18.10 (Cosmic Cuttlefish).

[[Read our documentation on using *VeraCrypt* volumes.|doc/encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt]]

### News reading in *Thunderbird*

*Thunderbird* is now the official RSS and Atom news feed reader in Tails.

*Liferea* will be removed from Tails in version 3.12, early 2019.

## Upgrades and changes

- Improve the configuration of the persistent storage to make it easier
  to scroll and consistent with the GNOME guidelines.

  [[!img version_3.9/persistence.png link="no" alt=""]]

### Included software

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0, based on *Firefox* 60 ESR.

  - Based on [*Firefox Quantum*](https://blog.mozilla.org/blog/2017/11/14/introducing-firefox-quantum/).

  - New Tor circuit view

    [[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/circuit_view.png link="no" alt=""]]

- Update *Thunderbird* from 52 to [60](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/60.0/releasenotes/).

- Update *Tor* to 0.3.4.7-rc.

- Update *Electrum* to from 3.0.6 to [3.1.3](https://github.com/spesmilo/electrum/blob/master/RELEASE-NOTES).

### Hardware support

The following updates make Tails work better on recent hardware (graphics,
Wi-Fi, etc.):

- Update *Linux* to 4.17 which also fixes the
  [Foreshadow](https://foreshadowattack.eu/) attack.

- Update the *DRM* and *Mesa* libraries to improve support for some graphics
  cards.

- Update the Intel and AMD microcodes and most firmware packages.

## Fixed problems

- Stop displaying the *Enigmail* setup wizard every time Tails is restarted.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15693]] and [[!tails_ticket 15746]])

- Show a spinner while starting *Tor Browser*, *Tails documentation*, and
  *WhisperBack*. ([[!tails_ticket 15101]])

- Use *Tor Browser* again for browsing the documentation offline.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15720]])

- Show *Synaptic* and *Root Terminal* even when no administration
  password is set. ([[!tails_ticket 11013]])

- *Tails Installer*

  - Link to upgrade documentation when upgrading. ([[!tails_ticket 7904]])
  - Hide the **Reinstall** option when the USB stick is too small. ([[!tails_ticket 14810]])
  - Correct the size of the USB stick in the confirmation dialog when reinstalling. ([[!tails_ticket 15590]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- Starting Tails 3.9 from DVD is twice slower than earlier releases.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15915]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.9

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.7.1, 3.8, and 3.9~rc1 to 3.9.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.9.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.10 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for October 23.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.9">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
