[[!meta date="Mon, 6 May 2019 16:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.13.2 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a critical security
vulnerability in *Tor Browser*.

It also fixes [[other security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.13.1]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

<a id="noscript"></a>

## Fixed *NoScript* activation in *Tor Browser*

Starting from Friday May 3, a problem in *Firefox* and *Tor Browser*
disabled all add-ons. This release reactivates all add-ons in *Tor
Browser*, especially *NoScript* which is used to:

- Strengthen *Tor Browser* against some JavaScript attacks that can lead
  to compromised accounts and credentials on websites.

- Enable or disable JavaScript on some websites using the *NoScript*
  interface, if you use it.

<a id="restart"></a>

<div class="caution">

<p>This issue still affects <em>Tor Browser</em> when it is restarted.</p>

<p><strong>Avoid restarting <em>Tor Browser</em>.</strong></p>

<p>Restart Tails instead or follow our instructions to reactivate
<em>NoScript</em> without restarting Tails. See below.</p>

</div>

### Reactivate *NoScript* without restarting Tails

If *NoScript* is activated, the *NoScript* icon appears in the top-right corner
and *Tor Browser* is safe:

[[!img with-noscript.png alt="" link="no"]]

If *NoScript* is deactivated, the *NoScript* icon is absent from the top-right corner and *Tor Browser* is unsafe:

[[!img without-noscript.png alt="" link="no"]]

To reactivate *NoScript* without restarting Tails, do the following:

1. Open the address <span class="command">about:config</span> in *Tor
   Browser*.

   [[!img about-config.png link="no"]]

1. Click the **I accept the risk!** button.

1. At the top of the page, search for
   <span class="command">xpinstall.signatures.required</span>.

1. Double-click on the **xpinstall.signatures.required** line in the
   results to set its value to **false**.

1. Verify that *NoScript* is activated again.

   [[!img xpinstall-false.png link="no"]]

## Other upgrades and changes

<a id="openpgp-applet"></a>

- Remove the *OpenPGP Applet* and *Pidgin* notification icons from the top
  navigation bar.

  [[!img top-navigation-bar.png link="no"]]

  You can still access the *OpenPGP Applet* and *Pidgin* notification icons
  from the system tray in the bottom-left corner of the screen.

  To display the system tray, move your mouse to the thin gray line in
  the bottom-left of the screen, above the window list:

  [[!img system-tray-folded.png class="right-margin" link="no"]] [[!img system-tray-unfolded.png link="no"]]

  To move these icons back to the top navigation bar, execute the
  following command in a *Terminal*:

  <p class="pre command">gnome-shell-extension-tool --enable-extension=TopIcons@phocean.net</p>

  Until now, these icons were displayed in the top navigation bar by the
  *TopIcons* GNOME extension. This extension is unmaintained, causes GNOME to
  crash ([[!tails_ticket 11188]]), and will not work in Tails 5.0 based on
  Debian 11 (Bullseye).
  
- Install localization packages only for the following languages:

  - Arabic
  - English
  - Farsi
  - French
  - German
  - Hindi
  - Indonesian
  - Italian
  - Portuguese
  - Russian
  - Simplified Chinese
  - Spanish
  - Turkish

  You can install localization packages for other languages using the
  *[[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]]* feature.

  Localization packages include:

  - *Thunderbird* localization:
    packages <span class="command">thunderbird-l10n-<span class="command-placeholder">lang</span></span>
  - *LibreOffice* localization:
    packages <span class="command">libreoffice-l10n-<span class="command-placeholder">lang</span></span>
  - Spell-checking dictionaries:
    packages <span class="command">hunspell-<span class="command-placeholder">lang</span></span>

  Where <span class="command-placeholder">lang</span> is the code for
  your language. For example, <span class="command-placeholder">es</span> for
  Spanish.

- Add a suspend button to the system menu.

  [[!img doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop/system.png link="no"]]

- Add suspend, restart, and shutdown buttons to the system menu when the screen is
  locked.

  [[!img suspend-and-shutdown-while-locked.png link="no"]]

- Replace all non-Latin fonts with the [[!wikipedia Noto_fonts
  desc="Noto fonts family"]].

- Update *Debian* to 9.9.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 60.6.1.

## Fixed problems

- Fix the automatic configuration of new email accounts in *Thunderbird*.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16573]])

- Prevent Tails from shutting down when waking up from suspend on some computers.
  ([[!tails_ticket 11729]])

- Fix the import of the [[Tails signing key|tails-signing.key]] in the
  *Passwords and Keys* utility. ([[!tails_ticket #15213]])

- Don't show notifications about *TailsData* when configuring a persistent
  volume. ([[!tails_ticket 16632]])

  [[!img TailsData-notification.png link="no"]]

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

### *NoScript* is deactivated when restarting *Tor Browser*

See [[how to reactivate *NoScript* without restarting
Tails|news/version_3.13.2#restart]] above.

### Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We are still investigating the issue, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.13.2

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are available from 3.12, 3.12.1, 3.13, and 3.13.1 to 3.13.2.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.13.2:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.14 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.13.2">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
