[[!meta date="Mon, 17 Oct 2011 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.8.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.8.1, is out.

This is a bugfix-only release mainly aimed at fixing serious security
issues in bundled software.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Iceweasel
  - Update to 3.5.16-10 (fixes DSA-2313-1).
  - FireGPG: force crypto action results to appear in a new window, otherwise
    JavaScript can steal decrypted plaintext. Advice: always use FireGPG's
    text editor when writing text you want to encrypt. If you write it in a
    textbox the plaintext can be stolen through JavaScript before it is
    encrypted in the same way.
  - Update HTTPS Everywhere extension to 1.0.3-1.
  - Stop using the small version of the Tor check page. The small version
    incorrectly tells Tails users to upgrade their Torbrowser, which has
    confused some users.

* Linux 3.0.0-2 (fixes DSA-2310-1, CVE-2011-2905, CVE-2011-2909,
  CVE-2011-2723, CVE-2011-2699, CVE-2011-1162, CVE-2011-1161).

* Other software:
  - Update usb-modeswitch and usb-modeswitch-data from Debian
    backports. This adds support for a few devices such as Pantech
    UMW190 CDMA modem.
  - Install barry-util for better BlackBerry integration.
  - Debian security upgrades: OpenOffice.org (DSA-2315-1), openjdk-6
    (DSA-2311-1), policykit-1 (DSA-2319-1)

* Protecting against memory recovery: set parameters that should make
  the wipe process a bit more robust and efficient.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.8.1)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.
