[[!meta title="Tails 4.18 is out"]]
[[!meta date="Tue, 20 Apr 2021 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes known security vulnerabilities.
You should upgrade as soon as possible.

<h1 id="changes">Changes and updates</h1>

- Remove "Synchronizing the system's clock" notification when connecting to Tor network

  We removed this notification because it didn't recommend a specific action for
  users to take and it was unclear. It might have given users the impression
  that they should alter their UTC clock settings. ([[!tails_ticket 7439]])

  [[!img version_4.18/time-sync.png link="no"]]

- Remove Poedit

  We now use Weblate to provide translated text for Tails and the Tails website,
  so Poedit isn't as necessary. To install Poedit in Tails, see our guide on
  [[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]] ([[!tails_ticket 18236]])

- Update *Tor Browser* to [10.0.16](https://blog.torproject.org/new-release-tor-browser-10016).

- Update *Thunderbird* to [78.9.0-1](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/78.9.1/releasenotes/).

- Update some Intel and Linux firmware packages. This should improve support for newer
hardware (graphics, Wi-Fi, and so on).

<h1 id="upgrades">Fixed problems</h1>

- Use more reliable Debian repositories

  Tails now connects to the APT repositories of Debian using their HTTPS address instead of their .onion address, for increased reliability with
  the [[Additional Software|doc/first_steps/additional_software]] feature.
  We left other Tails and Tor Project APT onion sources as is. ([[!tails_ticket 17993]])

- Display an error message when the Upgrader fails to download the signing key.
  This has been a silent error since 4.14. ([[!tails_ticket 18238]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<h1 id="issues">Known issues</h1>

[[!inline pages="news/version_4.14/broken_upgrades" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

<h1 id="get">Get Tails 4.18</h1>

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- Automatic upgrades are broken from Tails 4.14 and earlier. See the
  <a href="#broken-upgrades">known issue above</a>.

- Automatic upgrades are available from Tails 4.14 or later to 4.18.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade/#manual]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>The Persistent Storage on the USB stick will be lost if
you install instead of upgrading.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can download
Tails 4.18 directly:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

<h1 id="next">What's coming up?</h1>

Tails 4.19 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 18.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=4.17">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
