[[!meta date="Wed, 26 Jun 2013 10:36:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.19 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.19, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.18]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* New features
  - Linux 3.9.5-1.
  - Iceweasel 17.0.7esr + Torbrowser patches.
  - Unblock Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, WWAN and WiMAX; block every other type
    of wireless device.

* Bugfixes
  - Fix write access to boot medium at the block device level.
  - tails-greeter l10n-related fixes.
  - gpgApplet: partial fix for clipboard emptying after a wrong passphrase was entered.

* Minor improvements
  - Drop GNOME proxy settings.
  - Format newly created persistent volumes as ext4.
  - GnuPG: don't connect to the keyserver specified by the key owner.
  - GnuPG: locate keys only from local keyrings.
  - Upgrade live-boot and live-config to the 3.0.x final version from Wheezy.

* Localization: many translation updates all over the place.

* Test suite
  - Re-enable previously disabled boot device permissions test.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=0.19)
for technical details.

# Known issue

No new known issue but [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for around August 7.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
