[[!meta date="Thu Oct 16 12:34:56 2014"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.2 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.2, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.1.2]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

  * Major new features
    - Install (most of) the Tor Browser, replacing our previous
      Iceweasel-based browser. The version installed is from TBB 4.0
      and is based on Firefox 31.2.0esr. This fixes the
      POODLE vulnerability.
    - Upgrade Tor to 0.2.5.8-rc.
    - Confine several important applications with AppArmor.

  * Bugfixes
    - Install Linux 3.16-3 (version 3.16.5-1).

  * Minor improvements
    - Upgrade I2P to 0.9.15, and isolate I2P traffic from the Tor
      Browser by adding a dedicated I2P Browser. Also, start I2P
      automatically upon network connection, when the `i2p` boot
      option is added.
    - Make it clear that *TrueCrypt* will be removed in Tails 1.2.1
      ([[!tails_ticket 7739]]), and document how to open *TrueCrypt*
      volumes with `cryptsetup`.
    - Enable VirtualBox guest additions by default ([[!tails_ticket
      5730]]). In particular this enables VirtualBox's display
      management service.
    - Make the OTR status in Pidgin clearer thanks to the formatting
      toolbar ([[!tails_ticket 7356]]).
    - Upgrade syslinux to 6.03-pre20, which should fix UEFI boot on
      some hardware.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog)
for technical details.

# Known issues

* Tor Browser is translated in [[15
  languages only|support/known_issues#browser_languages]].

* [[Longstanding|support/known_issues]] known issues.

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[download]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
November 25.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
