[[!meta date="Mon, 30 Jan 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.10.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.10.1, is out.

This is a bugfix-only release mainly aimed at fixing serious bugs and
security issues.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Iceweasel
  - Make Startpage the default web search engine. Scroogle does not look
    reliable enough these days.

* Software
  - Upgrade WhisperBack to 1.5.1 (update link to bug reporting documentation).
  - Update MAT to 0.2.2-2~bpo60+1 (fixes a critical bug in the GUI).

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux kernel to 3.2.1-2

* Time synchronization
    Serious rework that should fix most, if not all, of the infamous
    time-sync' related bugs some Tails users have experienced recently.
    - Make htpdate more resilient by using three server pools, and
      allowing some failure ratio.
    - Set time from Tor's unverified-consensus if needed.
    - Set time to middle of [valid-after, fresh-until] from consensus.
    - Many robustness, performance and fingerprinting-resistance improvements.
    - Display time-sync' notification much earlier.

* Miscellaneous
  - Fix access to "dumb" git:// protocol by using a connect-socks wrapper
    as GIT_PROXY_COMMAND.
  - SSH client: fix access to SSH servers on the Internet by correcting
    Host / ProxyCommand usage.
  - Pidgin: use OFTC hidden service to workaround Tor blocking.
  - Claws Mail: disable draft autosaving.
    When composing PGP encrypted email, drafts are saved back to
    the server in plaintext. This includes both autosaved and manually
    saved drafts.
  - tails-security-check-wrapper: avoid eating all memory when offline.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.10.1)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.
