[[!meta date="Tue, 09 Jan 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.4 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.3]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

In particular, Tails 3.4 fixes the widely reported
[Meltdown](https://meltdownattack.com/) attack, and includes the
partial mitigation for [Spectre](https://spectreattack.com/).

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Update *Linux* to 4.14.12 which fixes
  [Meltdown](https://meltdownattack.com/),
  [Spectre](https://spectreattack.com/) (only partially) and many
  other issues. ([[!tails_ticket 14976]])

## Fixed problems

- Fix an issue that made Tails start very slowly, in particular on
  DVD. ([[!tails_ticket 14964]])

- Don't delete downloaded Debian packages after installing them. This
  is mostly relevant for users of the *APT Packages* persistence
  feature. ([[!tails_ticket 10958]])

- Fix an issue that prevented some Debian packages to install properly
  with the *Additional software* feature. ([[!tails_ticket 6038]])

- Update *uBlock Origin* to restore its icon in *Tor Browser*, and
  make its settings dashboard work again. ([[!tails_ticket 14993]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- The graphical splash screen usually displayed during Tails startup
  quickly disappears and is replaced by garbled text messages. As long
  as Tails appears to work fine for you otherwise, please ignore these
  messages, including the alarming message about a "kernel BUG" (which
  was [[!debbug 886329 desc="reported to Debian"]]): they do not
  affect the safety of your Tails system.
- Due to [an issue in *Tor
  Browser*](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/24243), the
  documentation shipped in Tails doesn't open in *Tor Browser* anymore
  and lacks our sidebar. The warning page of the
  *Unsafe Browser* also lacks graphical design. ([[!tails_ticket 14962]])

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.4

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.2 and 3.3.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if you fail to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.4.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.5 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 23.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.4">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
