[[!meta date="Tue, 19 Mar 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.13 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.12.1]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Add support for the Bopomofo input method for Chinese using the
  *Chewing* library and improve support for the Pinyin input method.
  ([[!tails_ticket 11292]])

  [[!img bopomofo.png link="no"]]

  If you still have problems typing in Bopomofo or Pinyin, please let us
  know on <tails-testers@boum.org> (public mailing list) or
  <tails-bugs@boum.org> (private email).

- Save a backup of the configuration of the persistent storage every time it is
  modified. ([[!tails_ticket 16461]])

  This will help us understand and solve why sometimes all the settings of the
  persistent storage disappear. ([[!tails_ticket 10976]])

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0.7.

- Update *Tor* to 0.3.5.8.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 65.1.0.

- Update *Linux* to 4.19.28.

- Update the Intel microcode to 3.20180807a.2, which fixes more
  variants of the Spectre, Meltdown, and Level 1 Terminal Fault (L1TF)
  vulnerabilities.

## Fixed problems

- Prevent *Additional Software* from downloading packages that are already
  saved in the persistent storage. ([[!tails_ticket 15957]])

- Fix the localization of *Tor Launcher*, the application to configure a [[Tor
  bridge|doc/first_steps/startup_options/bridge_mode]] or a local proxy.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16338]])

- Fix accessibility when opening *Tor Browser* from a desktop notification.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16475]])

- Fix *WhisperBack* crashing when additional APT repositories is configured.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16563]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

### Electrum is outdated and cannot connect to servers

[[!inline pages="doc/anonymous_internet/electrum/phishing.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

### Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We are still investigating the issue, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.


See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.13

## To upgrade your Tails USB stick and keep your persistent storage

- [[Automatic upgrades|doc/upgrade]] are available from 3.11,
  3.12~rc1, 3.12, and 3.12.1 to 3.13.

- If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

## To install Tails on a new USB stick

Follow our installation instructions:

  - [[Install from Windows|install/win]]
  - [[Install from macOS|install/mac]]
  - [[Install from Linux|install/linux]]

<div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

## To download only

If you don't need installation or upgrade instructions, you can directly download
Tails 3.13:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.14 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for May 14.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.13">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
