[[!meta date="Fri, 11 Jan 2013 16:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.16 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.16, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Minor improvements
  - Replace the too-easy-to-misclick shutdown button with a better
    "Shutdown Helper" applet.
  - Display `~/Persistent` in GNOME Places and Gtk file chooser.
  - Install dictionaries for a few languages.
  - Set Unsafe Browser's window title to "Unsafe Browser".
  - Install ekeyd to support the EntropyKey.
  - Install font for Sinhala script.
  - Update Poedit to 1.5.4.
  - Expose Vidalia's "broken onion" icon less.
  - Hide the persistence setup launchers in kiosk mode.

* Bugfixes
  - Disable IPv6 on all network interfaces. This is a workaround for
    the IPv6 link-local multicast leak that was recently discovered.
  - Tails may previously have been able to list GPT partitions labeled
    "TailsData" on hard drives (!) as valid persistence volumes...
    this is now fixed.
  - Fix SCIM in the autostarted web browser.
  - Talk of DVD, not of CD, in the shutdown messages.
  - Make tordate work in bridge mode with an incorrect clock.

* Iceweasel
  - Update iceweasel to 10.0.12esr-1+tails1.
  - Set the homepage to the news section on the Tails website.
  - Hide the iceweasel add-on bar by default.
  - Don't hide the AdBlock-Plus button in the add-on bar anymore.
  - Don't install xul-ext-monkeysphere anymore.

* Localization
  - tails-greeter: add German translation, update Portuguese (Brasil)
    and Russian ones.
  - tails-persistence-setup: update French, German and
    Italian translations.

Plus the usual bunch of bug reports and minor improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.16)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

See the [release schedule for Tails 0.17](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2013-January/002427.html).

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], there are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails. If you want to help, come talk to us!
