[[!meta date="Sat, 01 May 2010 19:17:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.5, is out.
This is the first release since the [[project has been renamed|new_project_name]].

Tons of bugs were fixed, including:

- A trick workarounds the nasty bug that often prevented the system to
  connect to the Tor network.
- New windows don't open in background anymore.
- Memory wiping at shutdown is now lightning fast and does not
  prevent the computer to halt anymore.
- onBoard now correctly autodetects the keyboard layout... at least
  once some keys have been pressed.
- and more!

Other notable changes include:

- Tor 0.2.1.25
- Vidalia 0.2.8
- Claws Mail 3.7.5 with OpenPGP support
- Pidgin automatically connects to irc.oftc.net with a randomized
  nickname, which allows to easily join our new
  [[chatroom|support/chat]].
- At shutdown time, only prompt to remove CD; just halt when booted
  from a USB stick.
- User settings (`$HOME`) are now generated in a programmatic way: no
  more ugly binary files in our source code!
- Forbid any IPv6 communication with the outside.
- Added some wifi drivers: Ralink rt2570, rt2860 and Broadcom STA.

... and of course the usual bunch of software security updates.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.5)
for details.

Please note we now have a [[newsletter|/news]], a web forum
and a [[chatroom on IRC|support/chat]].

[[Download it, seed it!|install]]
