[[!meta date="Wed, 13 Feb 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.12.1 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release is an emergency release to fix a critical security
vulnerability in Firefox.

It also fixes [[other security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.12]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0.6.

  This fixes a [critical
  vulnerability](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2019-05/)
  in the *Skia* library used by *Firefox* and *Chrome* to render graphics.

  If you are curious about the maths behind this vulnerability, you can
  read [The Curious Case of Convexity
  Confusion](https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/2019/02/the-curious-case-of-convexity-confusion.html)
  by Google Project Zero.

# Known issues

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

### Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We are still investigating the issue, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

# Get Tails 3.12.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.10, 3.10.1, 3.11,
  3.12, and 3.12~rc1 to 3.12.1.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- Download Tails 3.12.1:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.13 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 19.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.12.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
