[[!meta date="Wed, 05 Jul 2017 16:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.0.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.0]] and users should
upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

 * Upgrade tor to 0.3.0.9-1~d90.stretch+1. ([[!tails_ticket 13253]])
 * Upgrade Linux to 4.9.30-2+deb9u2.

## Fixed problems

 * Fix interaction between SSH and GNOME Keyring. ([[!tails_ticket 12481]])
 * Have Tails Installer stop rejecting valid USB drives,
   pretending they're not "removable". ([[!tails_ticket 12696]])
 * Make behavior of the power button and lid close actions in the *Greeter*
   consistent with the regular GNOME session. ([[!tails_ticket 13000]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.0.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 3.0.1.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.1 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for August 8.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.0.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
