[[!meta date="Tue, 29 Jan 2019 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.12 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.11]]. You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

### New installation methods

The biggest news for 3.12 is that we completely changed the installation
methods for Tails.

In short, instead of downloading an ISO image (a format originally
designed for CDs), you now download Tails as a **USB image**: an image
of the data as it needs to be written to the USB stick.

- [[For macOS|install/mac/usb-overview]], the new method is much simpler
  as it uses a graphical tool
  ([*Etcher*](https://www.balena.io/etcher/)) instead of the command
  line.

- [[For Windows|install/win/usb-overview]], the new method is much
  faster as it doesn't require 2 USB sticks and an intermediary Tails
  anymore. The resulting USB stick also works better on newer computers
  with UEFI.

- [[For Debian and Ubuntu|install/linux/usb-overview]], the new method
  uses a native application (*GNOME Disks*) and you don't have to
  install *Tails Installer* anymore.

- [[For other Linux distributions|install/linux/usb-overview]], the new
  method is faster as it doesn't require 2 USB sticks and an
  intermediary Tails anymore.

We are still providing ISO images for people using DVDs or virtual machines.

The methods for upgrading Tails remain the same.

## Upgrades and changes

- Starting Tails should be a bit faster on most machines.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15915]])

- Tell users to use <span class="command">sudo</span> when they try to
  use <span class="command">su</span> on the command line.

### Included software

- Update Linux to 4.19. Update Intel and AMD microcodes and most
  firmware packages. This should improve the support for newer hardware
  (graphics, Wi-Fi, etc.).

- Remove *Liferea*, as announced in [[Tails 3.9|news/version_3.9]].

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0.5.

- Update *Thunderbird* to
  [60.4.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/60.4.0/releasenotes/).

## Fixed problems

- Fix the black screen when starting Tails with some Intel graphics
  cards. ([[!tails_ticket 16224]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

See also the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

### Tails fails to start a second time on some computers ([[!tails_ticket 16389]])

On some computers, after installing Tails to a USB stick,
Tails starts a first time but fails to start a second time. In some
cases, only BIOS (Legacy) was affected and the USB stick was not listed
in the Boot Menu.

We are still investigating the issue, so if it happens to you, please
report your findings by email to <tails-testers@boum.org>. Mention the
model of the computer and the USB stick. This mailing
list is [archived publicly](https://lists.autistici.org/list/tails-testers.html).

To fix this issue:

1. Reinstall your USB stick using the same installation method.

1. Start Tails for the first time and [[set up an administration
   password|doc/first_steps/startup_options/administration_password]].

1. Choose <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">System Tools</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">Root Terminal</span>
   </span> to open a <span class="application">Root Terminal</span>.

1. Execute the following command:

   <p class="pre command">sgdisk --recompute-chs /dev/bilibop</p>

You can also test an experimental image:

1. [Download the *.img* file from our development
   server](https://nightly.tails.boum.org/build_Tails_ISO_bugfix-16389-recompute-chs/lastSuccessful/archive/build-artifacts/).

1. Install it using the same installation methods.

   We don't provide any OpenPGP signature or other verification technique
   for this test image. Please only use it for testing.

# Get Tails 3.12

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.10, 3.10.1, 3.11, and 3.12~rc1 to 3.12.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- Download Tails 3.12:

  - [[For USB sticks (USB image)|install/download]]
  - [[For DVDs and virtual machines (ISO image)|install/download-iso]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.13 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for March 19.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.12">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
