[[!meta date="Tue, 23 Oct 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.10.1 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.9.1]].

You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## Upgrades and changes

- Hide the [[**PIM** option|doc/encryption_and_privacy/veracrypt#parameters]]
  when unlocking *VeraCrypt* volumes because *PIM* won't be supported until
  Tails 4.0. ([[!tails_ticket 16031]])

- Rename the buttons in the confirmation dialog of *Tails Installer* to
  **Install** (or **Upgrade**) and **Cancel** to be less confusing.
  ([[!tails_ticket 11501]])

- Update *Linux* to 4.18.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0.3.

- Update *Thunderbird* to 60.2.1.

## Fixed problems

- Prevent *Tor Browser* from leaking the language of the session.
  ([[!tails_ticket 16029]])

- Prevent *Additional Software* from asking to persist packages which are
  already configured as additional software. ([[!tails_ticket 15983]])

- Prevent *Tails Installer* from crashing when issuing an error message with
  international characters (non-ASCII).  ([[!tails_ticket 15166]])

- Fix the *VeraCrypt* support for multiple encryption ([cascades of
  ciphers](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Cascades.html)). ([[!tails_ticket 15967]])

- Harden the configuration of `sudo` to prevent privilege escalation.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15829]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

None specific to this release.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.10.1

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.9 and 3.9.1 to 3.10.1.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|upgrade]].

- [[Download Tails 3.10.1.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.11 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for December 11.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=3.10.1">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
