[[!meta date="Fri, 09 Aug 2013 15:30:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.20 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.20, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible: this release fixes
[[numerous security issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_0.19]].

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* New features
  - Install Linux kernel 3.10.3-1 from Debian unstable.
  - Iceweasel 17.0.8esr + Torbrowser patches.

* Bugfixes
  - Prevent Iceweasel from displaying a warning when leaving HTTPS web sites.
  - Make Iceweasel use the correct, localized search engine.
  - Fix Git access to https:// repositories.

* Minor improvements
  - Install Dasher, a predictive text entry tool.
  - Add a wrapper around TrueCrypt which displays a warning about it soon
    being deprecated in Tails.
  - Remove Pidgin libraries for all protocols but IRC and Jabber/XMPP.
    Many of the other protocols Pidgin support are broken in Tails and
    haven't got any security auditting.
  - Disable the pre-defined Pidgin accounts so they do not auto-connect
    on Pidgin start.
  - Include information about Alsa in WhisperBack reports.
  - Explicitly restrict access to ptrace. While this setting was enabled
    by default in Debian's Linux 3.9.6-1, it will later disabled in 3.9.7-1.
    It's unclear what will happen next, so let's explicitly enable it ourselves.
  - Do not display dialog when a message is sent in Claws Mail.
  - Sync iceweasel preferences with the Torbrowser's.

* Localization
  - Many translation updates all over the place.
  - Merge all Tails-related POT files into one, and make use of intltoolize
    for better integration with Transifex.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?id=0.20)
for technical details.

# Known issue

No new known issue but [[longstanding known issues|support/known_issues]].

# I want to try it or to upgrade!

Go to the [[install]] page.

As no software is ever perfect, we maintain a list of [[problems
that affects the last release of Tails|support/known_issues]].

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is scheduled for around September 19.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute|contribute to Tails]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
