[[!meta date="Wed, 04 Jan 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.10 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.10, is out.

All users must upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

Notable user-visible changes include:

* Tor: upgrade to 0.2.2.35-1.

* Iceweasel
  - Install Iceweasel 9.0 from the Debian Mozilla team's APT repository.
  - Update Torbutton to 1.4.5.1-1.
  - Support viewing any YouTube video that is available in HTML5 format.
  - Use Scroogle (any languages) instead of Scroogle (English only) when
    booted in English. Many users choose English because their own
    language is not supported yet; let's not hide them search results in
    their own language.
  - Install the NoScript Firefox extension; configure it the same way as
    the TBB does.
  - Disable third-party cookies. They can be used to track users, which
    is bad. Besides, this is what TBB has been doing for years.

* Do not transparently proxy outgoing Internet connections through
    Tor. Instead drop all non-Torified Internet traffic. Hence
    applications has to be explicitly configured to use Tor in order
    to reach the Internet from now on.

* Software
  - Upgrade Vidalia to 0.2.15-1+tails1. This version will not warn about
    new Tor versions (this is handled by Tails security check instead).
  - Upgrade MAT to 0.2.2-1~bpo60+1.
  - Upgrade VirtualBox guest software to 4.1.6-dfsg-2~bpo60+1,
    built against the ABI of X.Org backports.
  - Upgrade I2P to 0.8.11; the start script (which was broken in Tails
    0.9) is now fixed.
  - Install unar (The Unarchiver) instead of the non-free unrar.
  - [[Install Nautilus Wipe|doc/encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] instead
    of custom Nautilus scripts.

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux kernel to 3.1.6-1.
  - Upgrade to X.Org from squeeze-backports.
  - Install more, and more recent b43 firmwares.
  - Upgrade barry to 0.15-1.2~bpo60+1.

* Internationalization
  - Add basic language support for Russian, Farsi and Vietnamese.
  - Install some Indic fonts.
  - Install some Russian fonts.
  - Add Alt+Shift shortcut to switch keyboard layout.

* Miscellaneous
  - Support booting in "Windows XP-like camouflage mode".
  - Do not fetch APT translation files. Running apt-get update is heavy enough.
  - Add MSN support thanks to msn-pecan.
  - Add custom SSH client configuration:
      - Prefer strong ciphers and MACs.
      - Enable maximum compression level.
      - Explicitly disable X11 forwarding.
      - Connect as root by default, to prevent fingerprinting when username
        was not specified.
  - Replace flawed FireGPG with a home-made GnuPG encryption applet;
    install a feature-stripped FireGPG that redirects users to
    [[the
    documentation|doc/encryption_and_privacy/FireGPG_susceptible_to_devastating_attacks]],
    and don't run Seahorse applet anymore.
  - Blank screen when lid is closed, rather than shutting down the system.
    The shutdown "feature" has caused data losses for too many people, it seems.
    There are many other ways a Tails system can be shut down in a hurry
    these days.
  - Fix bug in the Pidgin nick generation that resulted in the nick
    "XXX_NICK_XXX" once out of twenty.
  - Pre-configure the #tor IRC discussion channel in Pidgin.
  - Reintroduce the htpdate notification, telling users when it's safe
    to use Tor Hidden Services.
  - Various htpdate improvements.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog?h=0.10)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# Known issue

The memory erasure on Tails shutdown cannot guarantee that all memory
in the 2 GB to 4 GB region is wiped. The improvements made in Tails
0.10 should at least make the situation better than previously.

# A glimpse towards the future

Were do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
