[[!meta date="Sun, 01 Jul 2012 01:23:45 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 0.12.1 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 0.12.1, is out.

This is a [brown paper bag
release](http://www.catb.org/jargon/html/B/brown-paper-bag-bug.html)
aimed at fixing two major problems introduced in Tails 0.12. While
upgrading is recommended, it's not strictly necessary for users that
haven't experienced any issues with Tails 0.12.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

* Iceweasel
  - Upgrade Torbutton to 1.4.6.
  - Upgrade AdBlock Plus to 2.1.
  - Update AdBlock patterns.

* Hardware support
  - Upgrade Linux to 3.2.21-3 (linux-image-3.2.0-3-486).

* Software
  - Install python-pdfrw to re-add PDF support to the MAT.
  - Upgrade tails-greeter to 0.7.1, which fixes the race condition that
    broke administration password and locale settings on some systems.

* Boot
  - Remove the Tails specific plymouth theme. The theme interfers heavily with
    the boot process on some hardware.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online
Changelog](http://git.immerda.ch/?p=amnesia.git;a=blob_plain;f=debian/changelog;hb=refs/tags/0.12.1)
for technical details.

# I want to try it / to upgrade!

See the [[Getting started]] page.

# A glimpse towards the future

Where do we go from here? Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to
see where we are heading to.

Would you want to help? As explained in our [["how to contribute"
documentation|contribute]], here are many ways **you** can contribute
to Tails: no need to be a hardcore developer.
