[[!meta date="Tue Feb 24 12:34:56 2015"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 1.3 is out"]]
[[!tag announce]]

Tails, The Amnesic Incognito Live System, version 1.3, is out.

This release fixes [[numerous security
issues|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_1.2.3]] and all users must
[[upgrade|doc/first_steps/upgrade]] as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

  - **[[Electrum|doc/anonymous_internet/electrum]]** is an easy to use bitcoin wallet. You can use the
    [[**Bitcoin Client** persistence feature|doc/first_steps/persistence/configure#electrum]]
    to store your *Electrum* configuration and wallet.

  - The **Tor Browser** has additional operating system and data
    **security**. This security restricts reads and writes to a limited
    number of folders. [[Learn how to manipulate files|doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser#confinement]]
    with the new *Tor Browser*.

  - The **obfs4 pluggable transport** is now available to connect to Tor
    bridges. Pluggable transports transform the Tor traffic between the
    client and the bridge to help disguise Tor traffic from censors.

  - **[[Keyringer|doc/encryption_and_privacy/keyringer]]** lets you manage
    and share secrets using *OpenPGP* and *Git* from the command line.

## Upgrades and changes

  - The **Mac and Linux manual installation** processes no longer require the
    `isohybrid` command. Removing the `isohybrid` command simplifies the
    installation.
  - The **tap-to-click** and **two-finger scrolling** trackpad settings
    are now enabled by default. This should be more intuitive for Mac
    users.
  - The **Ibus Vietnamese input method** is now supported.
  - **Improved support for OpenPGP smartcards** through the installation
    of *GnuPG* 2.

There are numerous other changes that may not be apparent in the daily
operation of a typical user. Technical details of all the changes
are listed in the [Changelog](https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails/plain/debian/changelog).

# Known issues

See the current list of [[known issues|support/known_issues]].

# Download or upgrade

Go to the [[download]] page.

# What's coming up?

The next Tails release is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for
April 7.

Have a look to our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

Do you want to help? There are many ways [[**you** can
contribute to Tails|contribute]]. If you want to help, come talk
to us!
