[[!meta date="Tue, 11 Dec 2018 12:34:56 +0000"]]
[[!meta title="Tails 3.11 is out"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

This release fixes [[many security
vulnerabilities|security/Numerous_security_holes_in_3.10.1]].

You should upgrade as soon as possible.

[[!toc levels=1]]

# Changes

## New features

## Upgrades and changes

- Add a confirm dialog between downloading and applying an automatic
  upgrade to control better when the network is disabled and prevent
  partially applied upgrades. ([[!tails_ticket 14754]] and
  [[!tails_ticket 15282]])

  [[!img version_3.11/upgrade.png link="no"]]

- When running from a virtual machine, warn about the trustworthiness of
  the operating system even when running from a free virtualization
  software. ([[!tails_ticket 16195]])

  [[!img version_3.11/virtualization-warning.png link="no"]]

- Disable *Autocrypt* in *Thunderbird* to prevent sending unencrypted
  emails by mistake. ([[!tails_ticket 15923]])

- Update *Linux* to 4.18.20.

- Update *Tor Browser* to 8.0.4.

- Update *Thunderbird* to [60.3.0](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/thunderbird/60.3.0/releasenotes/).

## Fixed problems

- Fix the opening of *Thunderbird* in non-English languages. ([[!tails_ticket 16113]])

- Reduce the logging level of Tor when using bridges. ([[!tails_ticket 15743]])

For more details, read our [[!tails_gitweb debian/changelog desc="changelog"]].

<a id="known-issues"></a>

# Known issues

- Tails fails to start and displays a black screen with some Intel
  graphics cards.

  To fix this issue, add `nomodeset` to the [[startup
  options|doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]].

  If this workaround doesn't work, add `nomodeset xorg-driver=vesa` to
  the [[startup options|doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]].

  If this workaround doesn't work, please report to
  <tails-support-private@boum.org>:

  - The brand and model of your computer.
  - The workaround that you tried and that failed.
  - If possible, the output of the `lspci -n` command executed
    on another Linux system, such as an older Tails.

See the list of [[long-standing issues|support/known_issues]].

# Get Tails 3.11

- To install, follow our [[installation instructions|install]].

- To upgrade, automatic upgrades are available from 3.9 and 3.10.1 to 3.11.

  If you cannot do an automatic upgrade or if Tails fails to start after an
  automatic upgrade, please try to do a [[manual upgrade|doc/upgrade#manual]].

- [[Download Tails 3.11.|install/download]]

# What's coming up?

Tails 3.12 is [[scheduled|contribute/calendar]] for January 29.

Have a look at our [[!tails_roadmap]] to see where we are heading to.

We need your help and there are many ways to [[contribute to
Tails|contribute]] (<a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate/?r=3.11">donating</a> is only one of
them). Come [[talk to us|about/contact#tails-dev]]!
