[[!meta date="Thu, 2 Nov 2017 12:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!meta title="What we accomplished in 2017"]]
[[!tag announce]]

We recently asked you to [[give us a hand to fund our work in
2018|news/many_hands_make_tails]].

**Today, we want to tell you what we accomplished in 2017.**

- **New features and userfriendly interfaces**

  - We were particularly proud of [[releasing Tails 3.0|news/version_3.0]] almost
    at the same time as Debian 9.0 (Stretch) which strengthens our commitment to
    the free software communities without which Tails wouldn't exist.

  - We added new features, like [[OnionShare|doc/anonymous_internet/onionshare]]
    for sharing files, and redesigned other core features, like *Tails Greeter*
    and *Tails Installer*, to be much easier to use.

- **Security hardening**

  - We'll soon provide a reproducible build of the ISO image to
    protect users and developers from a malicious build of our ISO
    image. This effort was paid for by the Mozilla Open Source Support
    award which we received in 2016.

  - We promised to work on making all our mirrors use **HTTPS** and
    we're proud to announce that our mirror pool now contains over 40
    active and fast mirrors. They all serve our files over an encrypted
    TLS connection when downloading via the website with JavaScript
    enabled, when using our Download And Verify Extension and when Tails
    is updated.

- **Community**

  - We published our **[[Social
    contract|/contribute/working_together/social_contract]]**, the guiding
    principles that reflect the commitment to our ideals.

- **Fundraising**

  - **Have more reliable and steady sources of income**: We created a
    page presenting our [[past, present and future partners|partners/]]
    and hopefully inciting more companies and individuals to make
    substantial donations.

Next to this selection of new features, we also work on recurring tasks:

- In 2017, we published seven Tails **releases**.

- We answered 122 bug reports on average each month through our *help
  desk* and helped many people being safer online. Each user request
  costs us 6€ on average to proceed. In 2017 our help desk was paid
  entirely out of donations.

- We maintain and update our **infrastructure**. You might not see this
  effort, but it constitutes a crucial part of our work to verify that
  everything is functioning correctly, build ISO images, test, make it
  possible to publish emergency releases faster.

- Organizing our own **meetings** and attending conferences in our field
  is critical to keep our community alive and relevant. But this is
  usually hard to get funded by grants, so donations help us a lot here.

- In 2017, we attended **conferences** and connected to free software
  and Internet freedom communities in 8 different countries: OTF Summit
  (USA), 33C3 & Reproducible Builds world summit (Germany), FOSDEM
  (Belgium), IFF (Spain), Tor dev (Netherlands), GUADEC (United
  Kingdom), DebConf (Canada), CryptoRave (Brasil).

- Keeping Tails successful also implies quite a bit of
  **administration** to raise funds, do accounting, organize work, write
  reports, etc.

Besides substantial donations, we would be able to better plan our
future work if we would receive many more monthly donations.

**If you can, we'd love for you to sign up for monthly donations at
whatever level suits you ($5 = formidable. $10 = wonderful. More money =
magnificent.)**

If you like our work, please take one minute to keep Tails alive.

<div id="donate-button"><a href="https://tails.boum.org/donate?r=whatweaccomplished">Donate</a></div>
