[[!meta title="Help porting Windows camouflage to GNOME 3.14"]]
[[!tag announce]]

[[!meta date="Mon Jan 5 12:00:00 2015"]]

**Call for participation!**

Are you into GNOME development and want to participate to Tails?  Do you
want to improve your GTK or GNOME Shell theming skills while
supporting users needing privacy and stealth? Consider porting the
"Windows camouflage" of Tails to GNOME 3.14.

# What is the Windows camouflage?

Tails documentation reads "if you are using a computer in public you may
want to avoid attracting unwanted attention by changing the way Tails
looks into something that resembles Microsoft Windows 8." This is what
we call the "[[Windows camouflage|doc/first_steps/startup_options/windows_camouflage]]".

[[!img doc/first_steps/startup_options/windows_camouflage/windows_camouflage.jpg size=320x240 link=no]]

# Why is it useful?

We got reports that users have been arrested while using a
privacy-enhancing distribution because their screen looked very
different from others, which raised suspicion. It's why a Windows
camouflage has been added to Tails.

# What should be done?

Current Tails is based on GNOME 3.8 in "Fallback" mode. We are currently
upgrading Tails on top of the upcoming version on Debian ("Jessie")
which is based on GNOME 3.14. The Windows camouflage should be upgraded to
the last version of GTK and ported from GNOME Panel to GNOME shell. That
includes GTK and GNOME Shell theming through CSS as well as writing a
custom GNOME Shell extension.

# Why do we need you?

The team currently working on Tails is very busy and decided to focus on
the core or the upgrade rather than on the Windows camouflage. We currently
plan to go ahead with the initial Tails Jessie release even if the
Windows camouflage is missing. However, we would love to ship a proper Windows
camouflage and think it's a good occasion for you to give a hand. We'll
provide support to anybody volunteering and work together on integrating
the new theme to upcoming Tails Jessie snapshots.

# Where should you start?

Please read
<https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/update_camouflage_for_jessie/>, then
write to tails-dev@boum.org. This is a public mailing list:
<https://mailman.boum.org/listinfo/tails-dev/>. Please subscribe!

