[[!toc levels=2]]

# Discarded options

## Appending to squashfs image

`mksquashfs` can actually append new files to an existing `squashfs` image.

Initial images are created with files in a specific order to
[[improve boot time on cd]], but on a USB stick random access is a non-issue.

test if `mksquashfs` can append an image that is currently
used without weakening a running system.

Upgrading the system would result in a series of files to be appended to the
current `squashfs` image.

This option had been discared because it is not possible to remove files.

## Deltas

A possible way to encode deltas for the two previous methods could be:

 * For each file that has been modified: a binary delta and a new set of
   metadata if they have changed.
 * A list of deleted files.

And `mksquashfs` would be used in the running live system after applying the
delta to create a `squashfs` image with the upgrade.

But there is probably things that have been left out of such an early draft.

## Binary diff

Plain `diff` does not work on binary files.

Binary diffs ([rsync], [xdelta], [bsdiff], [VCDIFF]) gives poor
result on live system images because `squashfs` images vary
strongly as a whole, even for tiny changes of the files inside.
That situation is unlikely to change ([[!debbug 602965]]) and is even worse
with `squashfs-lzma`. Quoting `xz` manpage:

     Compressed output may vary
       The exact compressed output produced from the same uncompressed input
       file may vary between XZ Utils  versions  even if  compression  options
       are identical.  This is because the encoder can be improved (faster or
       better compression) without affecting the file format.  The output can
       vary even between different builds of the same XZ Utils  version, if
       different build options are used.

       The  above means that implementing --rsyncable to create rsyncable .xz
       files is not going to happen without freezing a part of the encoder
       implementation, which can then be used with --rsyncable.

[xdelta]: http://xdelta.org/
[bsdiff]: http://www.daemonology.net/bsdiff/
[VCDIFF]: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3284.txt
