[[!meta title="Help Desk's standard replies"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Standard reply
==============

<pre>

Dear Tails user,

Thank you for sharing your problem with us.

We are a very small team working on very limited resources. We might
not be able to answer you or might take several days to respond.
We are sorry for that.

In the meantime, you can find many resources on our support page:

https://tails.boum.org/support

It includes links to our documentation, FAQ, list of known issues, and a
page dedicated to graphics card.

We will need more information from you in 2 cases:

- **If this problem did not happen with an older version of Tails**:

  Please tell us which older version worked better.

- **If you find a way to work around the problem**:

  Please tell us and we will document it so that other affected users
  can benefit from your findings.

We might not be able to help you in following cases:

- For hardware issues, it is difficult for us to investigate them
  without having access to the affected computer. Furthermore, even if
  we managed to investigate each problem, unfortunately we often
  cannot solve them.

  Our best hope is that a future Linux driver update solves the problem.
  For advanced Linux users: if you want to dig deeper on your own, you
  can take it upstream after reproducing the issue on a recent Linux
  system other than Tails.

- For issues related to Tor Browser or the Tor network in general,
  please refer to the support portal of the Tor project:
  https://support.torproject.org/.

- For issues related to an application included in Tails, please
  consider contacting their support channels.

Thank you for your understanding.

</pre>

Hardware support reports we can't help with
===========================================

<pre>

Dear Tails user,

Thank you for sharing your problem with us.

We are sorry that Tails does not work well on this computer.

It is difficult to investigate most hardware problems without having
access to the affected computer. Furthermore, even if we managed to
investigate each problem, unfortunately we often cannot
solve them.

If you have not yet, please read our support page:

https://tails.boum.org/support/

We will need more information from you in 2 cases:

- **If this problem did not happen with an older version of Tails**:

  Please tell us which older version worked better.

- **If you find a way to workaround the problem**:

  Please tell us, and we will document it so that other affected users
  benefit from your findings.

Our best hope is that a future Linux driver update solves the problem.
For advanced Linux users: if you want to dig deeper on your own, you can
take it upstream after reproducing the issue on a recent Linux system
other than Tails.

Thank you for your understanding.

</pre>

Apple hardware support (Mac)
============================

See ticket here for up-to-date details:
<https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues/17640>.

Not enough information
======================

<pre>

Dear Tails user,

Thank you for sharing your problem with us.

Unfortunately, we can't help you at the moment because your description
doesn't include enough information.

Your problem may be already known, so please consult our known issues
page:

https://tails.boum.org/support/known_issues/

If you don't find your issue there, please read our bug reporting
instructions:

https://tails.boum.org/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting

We'd be grateful if you could give us a more complete description of the
problem:

INSERT SUPPORT QUESTION HERE

</pre>

Reply for users who repeatedly treat us as search engines
=========================================================

> This reply is not advisable for first time reports, only for
> users that keep asking questions already covered by our
> documentation.

<pre>

We are a very small team working on very limited human resources. A lot
of other people are asking for our help on our various support channels.
User support is an important task and is high in our priorities.

But all the time that we spend on user support is time that we cannot
dedicate to improving Tails itself. Please take this into consideration
when writing to us...

</pre>

Not a Tails-dev question
========================

<pre>

This is the mailing-list for Tails development.

For usage and support questions, please see instead:

https://tails.boum.org/support/

Thanks!

</pre>

No OpenPGP key on the keyservers
================================

<pre>

We could not find an OpenPGP key corresponding to your email address.

Please send us a valid OpenPGP public key or publish it to the
https://keys.openpgp.org/ keyserver and notify us when you do.

Thanks!

</pre>

How to collaborate with Tails
============================

<pre>

Hi,

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Tails. As a community
project, we welcome contributions in many forms, from programming to
writing and translating.

Please see our guide to learn how you can contribute:

https://tails.boum.org/contribute/

Cheers,

</pre>

Tails mirror is broken or scary SSL message
===========================================

<pre>

Thank you for reporting this. We have transferred these details to the
team that works on this at tails-mirrors@boum.org.

</pre>

Requesting feedback on GitLab issues
====================================

## Known issue where we need feedback

<pre>

Thank you for sharing your problems with us.

I think that you are experiencing an issue that has already been
reported:

INSERT LINK TO ISSUE

Can you confirm if your issue is the same and provide feedback to the
GitLab issue?

</pre>

## Asking a user to reproduce the issue with Debian-live

<pre>

Could you try to start a live version of Debian on your computer and see
if you can reproduce the issue?

Please read our instructions on how to reproduce bugs in Debian:

https://tails.boum.org/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting/#debian

With your help, this issue can hopefully be fixed in a future version of
Linux and thus Tails.

Thanks in advance!

</pre>
