[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

## Why running from a USB stick?

Running Tails from a CD has its virtues but it certainly also have its
limitations. While CDs are portable they usually do not fit in your pocket in a
comfortable manner. But a USB stick certainly fits any pocket or your key ring.
In addition, CDs are read-only and thus no data can be saved to them, but that
is, again, not the case with USB sticks. However, storing sensitive data on
writeable media could be dangerous if it got into the wrong hands. Similarly, if
we get a virus or manages to damage the system in other ways, the system is
tainted or unusable from that point and all consecutive boots, either with or
without your knowledge. Clearly that is not good.

Note that the method of installing Tails onto a USB stick is pretty crude at
the moment (a more intuituve way is planned). If you do not know precisely what
the things mentioned below mean it is recommended to stop now as you otherwise
might risk overwriting any present hard drives. Proceed at your own discretion!

<!--
FIXME: This might be better worded by using a 2x2 table with pros/cons of
using CD vs. USB.

There is also a third path that would be worth mentioning: most SD cards have a
read-only switch. It might cost a little bit more, but not much, to buy an USB
SD card reader and a SD card with such switch. That way, you can keep your
Tails system read-only when you are not upgrading it, something closer to a
CD-RW than a plain USB stick.

[[!tag todo/documentation]]
-->

## 1st method: from another running Tails Live CD or USB

If you are already able to run Tails from a CD or a USB stick (the source),
use this method to clone it onto another USB stick (the destination).

### Boot Tails from the source CD or USB stick.

### Find out the device name of the source Tails.

<!--
FIXME: All these steps (both in 3 and 4) would be a lot easier using *Disk
Utility*. Now that Tails 0.7 (based on Squeeze) is out, this part
shall be rewritten to use it.

[[!tag todo/documentation]]
-->

If you're running Tails from a CD the device name should be `/dev/cdrom`.

If you're running Tails from a USB stick, the device name should be something
like `/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.
  
If you're not sure about it's precise name:

Open the log file viewer from *Applications* → *System Tools* → *Log File
Viewer*.

In the `messages` file, search for the first occurrence of a `removable disk`
named `sd`<em>something</em>. If you only have your Tails key plugged it
should be the right one.

In the example on this screenshot the source USB stick was named `sdb` and so
the device name would be `/dev/sdb`. Yours could be different.

[[!img support/installing_onto_a_usb_stick/source-usb.png title="Logs containing [sdb]: Attached SCSI removable disk"]]

### Find out the device name of the destination USB stick.

Open the `messages` file from the log file viewer again in *Applications* →
*System Tools* → *Log File Viewer*.

Unplug and plug back the destination USB stick: some new lines should appear in
bold at the end of the file. They correspond to you plugging it. Find how was
the USB stick named and deduce the device name from it.

In the example on this screenshot the destination USB stick was named `sdc` and
so the device name would be `/dev/sdc`. Yours could de different.

[[!img support/installing_onto_a_usb_stick/destination-usb.png title="Logs containing [sdc]: Attached SCSI removable disk"]]

### Copy the source Tails onto the destination USB stick.

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the two following commands, replacing `[source]` by the name found in step
2 and `[destination]` by the name found in step 3.

    cat /dev/[source] > /dev/[destination]
    sync

In the example on the screenshots the commands would be:

    cat /dev/sdb > /dev/sdc
    sync

### Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than a hour. Be
patient…

### Troubleshooting.

If you get this error message:

    cat: /dev/sdx: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake either in step 2 or 3 and thus used a
wrong device name in step 4.

If you get this error message:

    cat: /dev/sdc: Permission denied

You might also have committed a mistake either in step 2 or 3, so please
double-check. If you're sure about your device names this could be a permission
problem and you would need to gain root privileges before running step 4. That
could be :

    cat /dev/[source] > /dev/[destination]
    sync

## 2nd method: from an ISO image

If you [[downloaded|download]] an ISO image (the source), use this method to
create a bootable USB stick from it (the destination). This method implies using
Linux and possibly the Gnome Desktop environment.

### Find out the name of the destination USB stick

Follow step 3 of the 1st method.

### Do the copy from the terminal.

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the two following command, replacing [tails.iso] by the path to your
Tails image and *destination* by the name found in step 1.

	cat [tails.iso] > /dev/[destination]
	sync

If you are not sure about the path to your ISO image or get a "No such file or
directory" error you can insert the correct path in the command by first typing
*cat * and then dragging and dropping the icon of the ISO image on the terminal
before typing the rest of the command.

You could get something like this :

    cat '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' > /dev/sdc && sync

### Press enter and wait.

If you don't see any error message, Tails is being copied onto the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than a hour. Be
patient…

### Troubleshooting.

See also the troubleshooting from the 1st method.

If you get this error message:

    cat: tails.iso: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake on the path to your ISO image in step
3.

