[[!meta title="Installing on a USB"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

## Why running from a USB?

Running T(A)ILS from a CD has its virtues but it certainly also have its
limitations. While CDs are portable they usually do not fit in your pocket in a
comfortable manner. But a USB memory stick certainly fits any pocket or your key
ring. In addition, CDs are read-only and thus no data can be saved to them, but
that is, again, not the case with USB drives. However, storing sensitive data on
writeable media could be dangerous if it got into the wrong hands. Similarly, if
we get a virus or manages to damage the system in other ways, the system is
tainted or unusable from that point and all consecutive boots, either with or
without your knowledge. Clearly that is not good.

Note that the method of installing T(A)ILS to USB is pretty crude at the moment
(a more intuituve way is planned). If you do not know precisely what the things
mentioned below mean it is recommended to stop now as you otherwise might risk
overwriting any present hard drives. Proceed at your own discretion!

## 1st method: from another T(A)ILS CD or USB

If you are already able to run T(A)ILS from a CD or a USB (the source), use this
method to clone it to another USB (the destination).

**1 — Boot T(A)ILS from the source CD or USB.**

**2 — Find out the device name of the source T(A)ILS.**

If you're running T(A)ILS from a CD the device name should be `/dev/cdrom`.

If you're running T(A)ILS from a USB the device name should be something like
`/dev/sdb`, `/dev/sdc`, etc.
  
If you're not sure about it's precise name:

Open the log file viewer from *Applications* → *System Tools* → *Log File
Viewer*.

In the `messages` file, search for the first occurrence of a `removable disk`
named `sd`<em>something</em>. If you only have your T(A)ILS key plugged it
should be the right one.

In the example on this screenshot the source USB was named `sdb` and so the
device name would be `/dev/sdb`. Yours could be different.

![Logs containing \[sdb\]: Attached SCSI removable disk](installing_on_a_usb/source-usb.png)

**3 — Find out the device name of the destination USB.**

Open the `messages` file from the log file viewer again in *Applications* →
*System Tools* → *Log File Viewer*.

Unplug and plug back the destination USB: some new lines should appear in bold
at the end of the file. They correspond to you plugging the USB. Find how was
the USB named and deduce the device name from it.

In the example on this screenshot the destination USB was named `sdc` and so the
device name would be `/dev/sdc`. Yours could de different.

![Logs containing \[sdc\]: Attached SCSI removable disk](installing_on_a_usb/destination-usb.png)

**4 — Copy the source T(A)ILS to the destination USB.**

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing `[source]` by the name found in step 2
and `[destination]` by the name found in step 3.

    cat /dev/[source] > /dev/[destination] && sync

In the example on the screenshots the command would be:

    cat /dev/sdb > /dev/sdc && sync

**5 — Press enter and wait.**

If you don't see any error message, T(A)ILS is being copied to the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than a hour. Be
patient…

**6 — Troubleshooting.**

If you get this error message:

    cat: /dev/sdx: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake either in step 2 or 3 and thus used a
wrong device name in step 4.

If you get this error message:

    cat: /dev/sdc: Permission denied

You might also have committed a mistake either in step 2 or 3, so please
double-check. If you're sure about your device names this could be a permission
problem and you would need to gain root privileges before running step 4. That
could be :

    sudo su
    cat /dev/[source] > /dev/[destination] && sync

## 2nd method: from an ISO image

If you [[downloaded|download]] an ISO image (the source), use this method to
create a bootable USB from it (the destination). This method implies using Linux
and possibly the Gnome Desktop environment.

**1 — Find out the name of the destination USB as in step 3 of the 1st method.**

**2 — Do the copy from the terminal.**

Open a terminal by going in *Applications* → *Accessories* → *Terminal* and
issue the following command, replacing [tails.iso] by the path to your T(A)ILS
image and *destination* by the name found in step 1.

	cat [tails.iso] > /dev/[destination] && sync

If you are not sure about the path to your ISO image or get a "No such file or
directory" error you can insert the correct path in the command by first typing
*cat * and then dragging and dropping the icon of the ISO image on the terminal
before typing the rest of the command.

You could get something like this :

    cat '/home/amnesia/Desktop/tails-0.6.2.iso' > /dev/sdc && sync

**3 — Press enter and wait.**

If you don't see any error message, T(A)ILS is being copied to the key. The
whole process might take a while, from a few minutes to more than a hour. Be
patient…

**4 — Troubleshooting.**

See also the troubleshooting from the 1st method.

If you get this error message:

    cat: tails.iso: No such file or directory

Then you surely have committed a mistake on the path to your ISO image in step
3.

