[[!meta title="Known issues"]]

- To learn what you can do with Tails, refer to our [[documentation|doc]].
- For more general questions about Tails, refer to our [[FAQ|support/faq]].

[[!toc levels=3]]

Problems starting Tails
=======================

This section lists known problems with specific hardware. To report a problem
with different hardware see our [[report guidelines when Tails does not
start|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting#does_not_start]].

<a id="problematic-usb-sticks"></a>

Problematic USB sticks
----------------------

<a id="sandisk"></a>

### SanDisk

Many SanDisk USB sticks are configured by the
manufacturer as a fixed disk, and not as a removable disk. As a consequence,
they require removing the `live-media=removable` boot parameter. See troubleshooting section about
Tails not starting entirely on [[PC|install/debian/usb#start-tails]] or
[[Mac|install/mac/usb#start-intermediary]].

* SanDisk Cruzer Edge 8GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Extreme USB 3.0 16GB, 32GB and 64GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Fit USB 2.0 8GB, 16GB, and 32G
* SanDisk Cruzer Force 8GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Glide 4GB, 8GB and 16GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Switch USB 2.0 8GB and 32GB
* SanDisk Cruzer USB 3.0 64GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Blade 4GB, 8GB, and 32GB
* SanDisk Cruzer Facet
* SanDisk Cruzer Orbiter 32GB (hangs at installation time but boots fine afterwards)
* SanDisk Ultra 16GB, 32GB

SanDisk had begun the production of flash drives configured as fixed disk in
2012 to meet new requirements for Windows 8 Certification, and ended it in mid-2014. The flash drives that
comply with this certification will have the Windows 8 logo on their packaging.
If a flash drive does not have the Windows 8 logo on its packaging, then that
drive will function as a removable disk and should work with Tails.

See also [[!tails_ticket 6397]].

<a id="pny"></a>

### PNY

When installing Tails, PNY USB sticks have problems with the constant write load
and are prone to failure.

<a id="aegis"></a>

### Aegis

* Aegis Secure Key USB 2.0

During the boot process, USB is briefly powered off, that causes Aegis hardware-encrypted USB sticks to lock down, and the PIN must be entered again (fast) in order to complete the boot.

* Aegis Secure Key USB 3.0

This USB stick doesn't start Tails at all, the USB 2.0 workaround is not working for that hardware.

<a id="datatraveler-2000"></a>

### Kingston DataTraveler 2000

Starting Tails from a Kingston DataTraveler 2000 doesn't work.

### Other vendors

* Staples Relay USB 2.0 16GB, suffers from the same problem as [[some SanDisk USB sticks|known_issues#sandisk]].

<a id="mac"></a>

Mac
---

* Any Mac with 32-bit EFI may not succeed in booting Tails USB stick
  created by Tails Installer. You can check if a given Mac is 32-bit
  or 64-bit EFI on that list:
  <http://www.everymac.com/mac-answers/snow-leopard-mac-os-x-faq/mac-os-x-snow-leopard-64-bit-macs-64-bit-efi-boot-in-64-bit-mode.html>
* MacBook Pro 2016 and 2017: the keyboard, trackpad and Touch Bar do
  not work.
* MacBook Pro 5,5 does not boot with Tails in UEFI mode.
* MacBook Pro 5,1 17" (Nvidia GeForce 9400M): one must add the
  `nouveau.noaccel=1` boot parameter so that the display
  works properly.
* MacBook Air 3,2 (A1369 EMC 2392) freezes when booting Tails in
  UEFI mode.
* MacBook Pro (early 2011) fails to boot from DVD since Tails 1.1.
* Mac Pro Tower and MacBook Pro 4,1 (both from early 2008)
  fails to boot from a USB stick created by
  Tails Installer.

<a id="pc">

PC
--

### Acer Travelmate 8573T-254G50M

Booting from DVD works fine, but does not start from USB sticks
created using Tails Installer.

This problem might be corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report
your test results back to us.

### Acer Aspire 5315-ICL50 and Acer ES-1-331

Does not start on USB sticks created using Tails Installer.

### ASUS VivoBook X202E

Legacy support needs to be enabled in order to start Tails. To enable
legacy boot support, enable 'Launch CSM' under boot (menu).

This problem might be corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report
your test results back to us.

### Dell Chromebook LULU

You need to add `nomodeset` to the
[[startup options|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]]
to make Tails start successfully.

### Dell Inc. Latitude E6430 and E6230

Does not start on USB sticks created using Tails Installer.

With BIOS versions A03 06/03/2012 (and A09, A11, and A12)

Error message: `Invalid partition table!`

Workaround (at least with BIOS versions A09, A11, and A12): just hit enter
and it will continue with the boot.

This problem might be corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report
your test results back to us.

### Dell XPS L702X/03RG89, Samsung RV520, Samsung Series 7 Chronos

Does not start on USB sticks created using Tails Installer.

We were reported that the legacy BIOS shipped on these systems doesn't
know how to deal with the GPT partition scheme installed by Tails
Installer.

This problem might be corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report
your test results back to us.

<http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3518/p/19392884/20010995.aspx>

### Dell Inspiron 8100

The display panel will have the wrong resolution unless `video=LVDS-1:1600x1200
nouveau.noaccel=1` is added to the boot command line. This problem might be
corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report your test results back
to us.

### Dell Dimension 2400

Does not start neither from USB nor from DVD. System crashes with a blank
screen and locked up keyboard. This problem might be corrected in
newer versions: please report your test results back to us.

### Fujitsu Siemens Amilo A 1667G

Does not start on USB sticks created using Tails Installer.

### HP Compaq dc5750 Microtower

Does not start Tails 1.2.3 created using Tails Installer.

### HP Compaq 615

You need to update the firmware to its latest version in order to start from a
device installed using Tails Installer.

### HP Compaq CQ60-214DX

Tails 3.3 does not start. ([[!tails_ticket 14739]])

### HP Pavilion 15-ab277ca

Tails 3.3 restarts during startup and never starts successfully
([[!tails_ticket 15152]]).

### HP Pavilion dv7

Since Tails 1.3, gets stuck at the Boot Loader Menu, whether Tails is installed manually or using
Tails Installer.

### HP ProBook

With UEFI enabled, when choosing a boot device, select `Boot From EFI File` and
then `Filesystem Tails` and `EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI`.

That workaround applied to, at least, the following HP ProBook:

* 4330s
* 6560b

### Lenovo IdeaPad Y410p

Does not start Tails 1.1 from USB installed manually in Linux.

### Lenovo IdeaPad z585

Goes back continuously to Boot Loader Menu on Tails installed on DVD.

### Clevo W258CU, ThinkPad X121e, T420i, T410, T520, W520, T530, E325, and E530

These machines do not start on USB sticks created using Tails
Installer due to a firmware limitation.

A workaround for some of these machines is to use the [[manual
installation process|install/linux/usb]].
Note, however, that this technique does not allow you to set up
a persistent volume.

This problem might be corrected in Tails 1.1 and newer: please report
your test results back to us.

Graphics issues
===============

GNOME desktop fails to start with some AMD/ATI Radeon graphic adapters
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Some computers [[!tails_ticket 11095 desc="cannot start the GNOME
desktop"]].

After the <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span> they freeze, or
sometimes fail with the message <span class="error">"Oh no! Something has gone
wrong. A problem has occurred and the system can't recover. Please contact a
system administrator"</span>.

This issue has appeared with the following graphic adapters:

- Mars XTX [Radeon HD 8790M]
- Mars XTX [Radeon HD 8790M] (rev ff)
- Cedar [Radeon HD 5000/6000 7350/8350 Series]
- Broadway PRO [Mobility Radeon HD 5850]
- RV730/M96 [Mobility Radeon HD 4650/5165]

For some models, adding `radeon.modeset=0` to the
[[startup options|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]] fixes the issue.

Tails Greeter fails to start with some AMD/ATI Radeon graphic adapters
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Some computers cannot start Tails Greeter. This issue has appeared
with the following graphic adapters:

- AMD Radeon R9 390

Adding `radeon.dpm=0` to the
[[startup options|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]]
fixes the issue.

<a id="nvidia-maxwell"></a>

Tails Greeter fails to start on computers with NVIDIA Maxwell graphic cards
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some computers cannot start Tails Greeter. This appears with some
graphic cards in the
[NVIDIA Maxwell family](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/CodeNames/#nv110familymaxwell).
This problem has been fixed in Tails 3.2 for some of these graphic
cards. If Tails Greeter still does not start for you:

1. Add `nouveau.noaccel=1` or `nouveau.modeset=0` to the
   [[startup options|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_loader_menu]].
2. [[Report a bug|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]], giving us an email
   address so we can contact you to debug the problem.
   Please reference [[!tails_ticket 15116]] in your bug report.

<a id="nvidia-pascal"></a>

Tails Greeter fails to start on computers with NVIDIA Pascal graphic cards
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some computers cannot start Tails Greeter. This may appear with the
[NVIDIA Pascal family](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/CodeNames/#nv130familypascal)
of graphic adapters.

If Tails Greeter does not start for you:

1. Add `nouveau.noaccel=1` or `nouveau.modeset=0` to the
   [[startup options|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_loader_menu]].
2. [[Report a bug|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]], giving us an email
   address so we can contact you to debug the problem.
   Please reference [[!tails_ticket 15116]] in your bug report.

<a id="switchable_graphics_black_screen"></a>

Black screen with switchable graphics computers
-----------------------------------------------

Some computers with switchable graphics (such as Optimus) fail to
choose a video card and end up on a black screen. This has been
reported for MacBook Pro 6,2, MacBook Pro 10,1 Retina, MacBook Pro
15-inch (early 2011) and might affect many others.

There are several possible workarounds for this issue:

* Explicitly select one of the two graphics adapters in the BIOS
  instead of letting the system choose one automatically. If this does
  not solve the problem, try selecting the other graphics adapter.

* For the Mac computers, it is possible to use a third-party
  application, <http://gfx.io/>, to force integrated graphics only through OS X.
  Then restart in that special mode that works with Tails.

* Expert Linux users can also do the following:

  1. Add the `i915.modeset=0 rootpw=pass` option in the
     [[Boot Loader Menu|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_loader_menu]].

  2. Create a file `/etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/switchable.conf` with the
     following content:

         Section "Device"
             Identifier "Device0"
             Driver "nouveau"
             BusID "1:0:0"
         EndSection

  4. Restart X with the command:

         service gdm3 restart

  5. After the GNOME session has started, change again the root password with
     the command:

         sudo passwd

For more details, see our ticket on [[!tails_ticket 7505 desc="Video is broken with switchable graphics"]].

<a id=switchable_graphics_segfault></a>

Cannot start GNOME session with switchable graphics computers
-------------------------------------------------------------

On some computers with switchable graphics, Tails 2.10 and later fails
to start the GNOME session and keeps returning to [[Tails
Greeter|doc/first_steps/startup_options#greeter]].

Starting in **Troubleshooting Mode** works, as well as adding the
`modeprobe.blacklist=nouveau` to the [[startup
options|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_loader_menu]].

Laptops with Intel 855GM graphic card
-------------------------------------

Laptops with graphic card Intel 855GM (as Dell Inspiron 510M)
crash after Tails Greeter.

See [[!debbug 776911 desc="relevant bug report"]] for more information.

Laptops with Intel GM965/GL960 graphic card
-------------------------------------------

Laptops with graphic card Intel GM965/GL960 crash while running Tails.
Add `video=SVIDEO-1:d` on the boot command line to work around this problem.

See [[!linuxbug 187001]] for more information.

<a id="xorg-driver"></a>

Systems with Intel graphic cards
--------------------------------

The graphical interface fails to start on some Intel graphics
adapters. If this happens to you:

1. Add the `xorg-driver=intel` option in the
   [[boot menu|doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]].
2. If this fixes the problem, report to <tails-support-private@boum.org>
   the output of the following commands:
   
         lspci -v
         lspci -mn
   
   … so we get the identifier of your graphics adapter and can have
   this fix applied automatically in the next Tails release.
3. If this does not fix the problem, try Troubleshooting Mode and
   [[report a bug|doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]]. Include the exact
   model of your Intel graphics adapter.

Virtual machines with *virt-manager*, *libvirt* and *QEMU*
----------------------------------------------------------

See the
[[dedicated troubleshooting documentation|doc/advanced_topics/virtualization/virt-manager#graphics-issues]]
about graphics issues in Tails running inside a virtual machine
with *virt-manager*.

Virtual machines with *VMware*
------------------------------

To improve support of Tails running inside a virtual machine with
*VMware*, [[install|doc/advanced_topics/additional_software]] the
`open-vm-tools-desktop` software package in Tails.

<a id="wi-fi"></a>

Wi-Fi issues
============

<a id="broadcom-sta-dkms"></a>

Broadcom Wi-Fi network interface needing `broadcom-sta-dkms`
------------------------------------------------------------

Some Broadcom Wi-Fi interfaces require the
[`wl`](https://wiki.debian.org/wl) driver, provided by the
`broadcom-sta-dkms` Debian package, to work in Tails.

The `wl` driver is not included in Tails because it is proprietary.

To find out if your Wi-Fi interface requires the `wl` driver:

1. Execute the following command in a [[terminal|doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop#terminal]]:

       lspci -nn | grep Network

2. Verify if your device is in the list of devices supported by the `broadcom-sta-dkms`
package on the corresponding [Debian wiki page](https://wiki.debian.org/wl).
If you find your device in the list of supported devices, then it is
impossible to use your Wi-Fi card in Tails.

Systems with RTL8723be Wi-Fi adapter
------------------------------------

On some computers with a RTL8723be Wi-Fi adapter, Tails may fail to discover
Wi-Fi networks, may provide unreliable Wi-Fi connections, or may provide poor
Wi-Fi performance.

Most such problems can be solved by adding
[[startup options|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]].

The exact combination of options that will work depends on the
computer, so try the following instructions until you find
a combination that works for you:

1. Add `rtl8723be.fwlps=0 rtl8723be.ips=0` to the startup options.
2. Add `rtl8723be.ant_sel=1` to the startup options.
3. Add `rtl8723be.ant_sel=2` to the startup options.
4. Add `rtl8723be.ant_sel=1 rtl8723be.fwlps=0 rtl8723be.ips=0`
   to the startup options.
5. Add `rtl8723be.ant_sel=2 rtl8723be.fwlps=0 rtl8723be.ips=0`
   to the startup options.

Security issues
===============

<a id="video-memory"></a>

Tails does not erase video memory
---------------------------------

Tails doesn't erase the [[!wikipedia VRAM desc="video memory"]] yet.
When one uses Tails, then restarts the computer into another operating
system, that other operating system can see what has been displayed on
the screen within Tails.

Shutting down the computer completely, instead of restarting it,
might allow the video memory to empty itself.

See [[!tails_ticket 5356 desc="Erase video memory on shutdown"]].

Tails DVD eject failure
-----------------------

Pressing the DVD eject button does not trigger emergency shutdown.
Also, the "normal" (non-emergency) shutdown procedure does not eject
the DVD anymore.

See [[!tails_ticket 5447 desc="Fix DVD eject at shutdown"]].

<a id="fails-to-shutdown"></a>

Tails fails to completely shutdown or restart
---------------------------------------------

When stopping Tails on some hardware, the memory wipe procedure fails to
complete: the display gets scrambled, but the computer doesn't
completely shutdown or restart. Sometimes the caps-lock button light of
the keyboard flashes.

<div class="caution">

When this happens, there is no guarantee that the memory is wiped entirely.

</div>

This issue has been reported on the following hardware:

  - Apple when booting from a USB stick:
    - MacBook Air 5,1
    - MacBook Air 5,2 (using a device installed with Tails Installer)
    - MacBook Air 6,2
    - MacBook Pro 7,1 13-inch (mid 2010)
    - MacBook Pro 9,2 13-inch (mid 2012)
    - MacBook Pro 8,1 13-inch (late 2011)
    - MacBook Pro 10,2
    - MacBook Pro Retina 11,1 (late 2013)
    - MacBook Pro Retina 13-inch (early 2015)
  - Hewlett-Packard HP ENVY x360
  - Hewlett-Packard HP Pavilion dv6 Notebook PC
  - Hewlett-Packard HP ProBook 450 G0
  - Lenovo ThinkPad X61, only on emergency shutdown when pulling out the
    USB stick
  - Lenovo ThinkPad X220
  - Toshiba Satellite C855D
  - Dell Inc. Studio 1458
  - Fujitsu Lifebook AH531/GFO, only on regular shutdown, emergency
    shutdown works
  - Samsung N150P
  - Acer Aspire e1-572
  - Dell Latitude E6230
  - Microsoft Surface Pro 3

<!--

Note: If we enable again this section in the future, we should link to
it from /doc/about/fingerprint.mdwn.

<a id="fingerprint"></a>

Browser fingerprint
===================

There are known differences between the fingerprints of <span
class="application">Tor Browser</span> inside and outside of Tails:

For more detail, see our [[documentation on the Tails
fingerprint|doc/about/fingerprint]].

-->

Other issues
============

<a id="chainloading"></a>

Chainloading Tails from GRUB
----------------------------

To workaround problems in booting Tails on laptops with UEFI support, it is
possible to chainload the syslinux on the ISO image from another boot loader
that is already working on the laptop, like GRUB. Be careful not to modify at
all the options of syslinux in the process.

The following commands, run from the GRUB shell, might be helpful:

    set root=(hd1)
    chainloader +1
    boot

Boot Loader Menu has display issues
-----------------------------------

Since Tails 1.1, on some hardware (ThinkPad X230, MacBook Pro 8,1),
the Boot Loader Menu is not displayed properly. Tails starts fine, though.

Connecting to FTP servers is not possible
-----------------------------------------

Public FTP servers on the Internet are not reachable using Tails.
See [[!tails_ticket 6096 desc="Fix FTP support"]] for more details.

Tails fails to connect to certain Wi-Fi networks
------------------------------------------------

This might be related to the introduction of wireless regulation support
in Tails 0.13.

The desktop crashes when run with the default QEMU emulated processor
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a [bug in llvmpipe](https://freedesktop.org/patch/34445/), when
Tails runs in a QEMU virtual machine with the default emulated CPU,
the GNOME desktop crashes after login.

To workaround this problem, pass @-cpu host@ on the QEMU command-line.
If you use <span class="application">libvirt</span>, choose <span
class="guilabel">Copy host CPU configuration</span> in <span
class="application">virt-manager</span>'s processor configuration screen.

Touchpad configurations
-----------------------

### Acer TravelMate B113 - ETPS/2 Elantech Touchpad

    synclient FingerPress=256;
    synclient TapButton3=0;
    synclient Clickpad=1;
    synclient VertTwoFingerScroll=1;
    synclient FingerLow=1;
    synclient FingerHigh=1;

### Acer C720 - Cypress APA Touchpad

    synclient FingerLow=5;
    synclient FingerHigh=5;

Bluetooth devices don't work
----------------------------

Bluetooth is not enabled in Tails for security reasons.

<a id="browser_languages"></a>

Tor Browser is translated in a limited number of languages
----------------------------------------------------------

Since Tails 1.2, the web browser is based on Tor Browser which is
translated in less languages than before. You can see the list of
languages available in Tor Browser from the [Tor Browser
homepage](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser.html.en).

Playing WebM videos in the Tor Browser fails on old hardware
------------------------------------------------------------

On systems that only have one CPU code, WebM videos may fail to play
in the Tor Browser, and show the error message: "Video can't be played
because the file is corrupt". You can work around this by downloading
the video and watching it in the Totem video player.

<a id="automatic_upgrade_fails"></a>

Tails does not boot after automatic upgrade
-------------------------------------------

Sometimes, after an automatic upgrade, Tails
gets blocked when booting, often after the message
'Loading, please wait...'.

To fix this problem, you can [[update your Tails
manually|doc/first_steps/upgrade/#manual]].

Note that your Persistent Volume will be safely preserved.

<a id="restart-shell"></a>

## Icons and information located on the top right corner of the screen disappeared

Sometimes, some of the icons located on the top right corner of the
screen are not displayed entirely, or at all. For example,
the icon that allows to change to another keyboard layout
may be hidden. Other information, such as the clock, may not
be visible.

Press <span class="keycap">Alt+F2</span> and type `r` to restart GNOME
Shell, which often solves this problem.

See [[!tails_ticket 10576]] for more details.

Some languages do not have the correct keyboard layout set by default
---------------------------------------------------------------------

When selecting some languages in the Tails Greeter, the default associated
keyboard layout fallbacks to US.

To use the right keyboard layout during a session, set it in the Tails
Greeter after having set the language. When the desktop has started, apply
the keyboard layout by clicking on the `en` systray icon.

Affected language codes are `AYC`, `BHB`, `BRX`, `CMN`, `HAK`, `HNE`, `LIJ`,
`LZH`, `MHR`, `NAN`, `NHN`, `QUZ`, `SGS`, `SHS`, `TCY`, `THE`, `UNM`, `WAE` and
`YUE`.

## The OpenPGP passphrase prompt steals the keyboard and mouse focus

This happens when one has enabled the GnuPG persistence feature before
Tails 2.3. To fix this problem, execute the following command in
a
[[terminal|doc/first_steps/introduction_to_gnome_and_the_tails_desktop#terminal]]:

	echo "no-grab" >> ~/.gnupg/gpg-agent.conf

## Problems when the system clock goes backwards

When connecting to Tor, Tails sets the system time to the current time
in the [[!wikipedia Coordinated_Universal_Time]] (UTC) timezone.
Many operating systems, such as Linux and macOS, write time expressed
in UTC to the hardware clock of the computer. But, Windows instead
writes time expressed in the local timezone to the hardware clock of
the computer. So, if you are east of the United Kingdom (which is in the UTC timezone) on
a computer that also runs Windows, Tails will make the system clock go
backwards during startup. Unfortunately, this may trigger software
errors in Tails.

For example, when this happened in Tails 3.4 the <span
class="guimenu">Applications</span> menu sometimes stops working.

To solve this problem permanently on a Windows computer,
[set the hardware clock of the computer to UTC](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Time#UTC_in_Windows).

See [[!tails_ticket 14250]] and [[!tails_ticket 15168]] for more details.

## Lenovo ThinkPad 11e

Tails may be unstable and stop working regularly on some Lenovo
ThinkPad 11e laptops, such as the 2015 model.

To fix this problem, add `intel_idle.max_cstate=1` to the
[[startup options|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#boot_loader_menu]].
