[[!meta title="Virtualization"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

FIXME: shouldn't the paragraph "Tails and Virtualization" from [[walkthrough]]
come here?

Security issues
===============


When running Tails inside a virtual machine, both the host operating system
and the virtualization software are able to monitor what you are doing in
Tails. Moreover, traces of your activities with Tails are likely to be left on the 
local hard disk when running Tails in a Virtual Machine.

As even a well-configured host operating system provides an additional target for attacks, the Tails Project recommends to boot Tails directly from a CD or USB flash drive whenever possible.

During boot, Tails checks for the presence of virtualization software and warns 
you when it is run inside a virtual machine.

If you read the warning during boot while you are **not aware** to be using a 
virtual machine, **consider it a strong warning that your computer is running a 
rootkit without your knowledge and someone is eavesdropping on you.**

On some hardware configurations, there is a small chance that of a false positive, 
i.e. the virtualization detection software Tails uses [[wrongly|found_a_problem]] 
detects the presence of a Virtual Machine.




Tips and tricks
===============

The [[Tails walkthrough|https://tails.boum.org/support/walkthrough/index.en.html#index15h2]] has a chapter on virtualization.

# Operating systems

## Microsoft Windows

In some cases it is advisable to install a HIPS (Host Intrusion Prevention System)
with high security settings instantly after installing Windows. 
