[[!meta title="Tails October 2018 report"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

This report covers the activity of Tails in October 2018.

Everything in this report is public.

# A. VeraCrypt support in GNOME

## A.4 Add VeraCrypt support to udisks

- We sent
  a [proposal](https://github.com/storaged-project/udisks/issues/589)
  to udisks upstream for enabling VeraCrypt support by default: in
  order to enable this support, one currently needs to create an empty
  file somewhere as an administrator. This is outside of the scope of
  this project but we would like to go the extra mile and ensure all
  GNOME users can benefit from our work without having to do anything
  special. Our proposal was well received. ([[!tails_ticket 15615]])

## A.9 Fix bugs and UX issues

We fixed a UX issue: The unlock dialogs contained UI elements for options which are currently unsupported in Tails ([[!tails_ticket 16031]]).

## A.10 Port to the latest version of GNOME

We documented how to backport our patches to the Debian packages we use in Tails ([[!tails_ticket 15524]]).

This task is now complete.

# B. Additional software

## B.2 Write technical design documentation

This task was completed:

- The [[technical design documentation for Additional
  Software|/contribute/design/additional_software_packages]] has been
  merged and published on our website.

## B.3 Write automated tests

This task was completed:

- The [high-level
  behavior](https://gitlab.com/Tails/tails/blob/test/14471-veracrypt/features/veracrypt.feature),
  that we specified in Gherkin in September, passed our internal
  review process.

- The implementation of the corresponding tests passed an initial code
  review and should be merged by the time this report is published.
  ([[!tails_ticket 14471]], [[!tails_ticket 14469]], [[!tails_ticket
  15238]], [[!tails_ticket 15239]])

## B.8 Fix bugs and UX issues

This task was completed:

- Our fix for a regression introduced in Tails 3.9 (the _Persistence
  Configuration_ was displayed full screen in some specific screen
  resolutions, which made the software harder to use) passed the code
  review and will be included in the next version of Tails.
  ([[!tails_ticket 15894]])

- We fixed another bug that would ask on every boot if an already
  configured set of Additional Software Packages needs to be made
  persistent. ([[!tails_ticket 15893]])

## B.9 Project management

This task was completed.

# C. Deliver new features

Our work to decrypt VeraCrypt volumes in Gnome has landed upstream and
is therefore being included in other distributions, as mentioned in the
[release announcement of Ubuntu Cosmic
Cuttlefish](https://blog.ubuntu.com/2018/10/19/welcome-ubuntu-desktop-18-10).
