[[!meta title="Tails May 2018 report"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

This report covers the activity of Tails in May 2018.

Everything in this report is public.

# A. VeraCrypt support in GNOME

# B. Additional software

## B.6 User documentation

We've started to work on the user documentation and completed a first
round of reviews.

## B.7 Beta release, user testing & community feedback

We [[published a beta version of the Additional Software feature and asked
users to test it|news/test_asp-beta]]. Bugs and remarks from users have
been collected on our bug tracker in order to improve them
[[!tails_ticket 15567]].

We also conducted and completed a user testing of the beta version.

To this end, we organized an in-person moderated user testing with 5
participants. We recruited participants who are in the target audience
for this feature: people who had tried Tails a few times but who were
not expert users.

The interface that we designed in January worked really well. Only one
participant had a very bad time and failed some of the missions.

Most issues are around the interface itself: they are integration issues
or issues in other parts of Tails, in GNOME, or in the navigation on our
website and documentation.

The average SUS score is of 68 which is considered right on average compared to
other industry products.

A more detailed report was sent to our UX mailing list:

<https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-ux/2018-May/003543.html>

The full results are available in on UX Git repo (OTS spreadsheet):

<https://git.tails.boum.org/ux/plain/additional%20software/user_testing_results.fods>


# C. Deliver new features
