[[!toc levels=2]]

This is about generating, distributing and installing Tails as a disk
image that, once copied bit-by-bit to a USB stick, produces a _final
Tails_ (GPT, UEFI-bootable, ready to get a persistent volume).

This would:

 - avoid the need for a second USB stick and an intermediary Tails
   during the initial installation and full manual upgrade; as
   a consequence:
   - big UX win
   - avoid the
     [[!tails_ticket 12146 desc="intermediary Tails not being bootable on many UEFI systems"]]
     problem
   - removes a blocker for
     [[!tails_ticket 6560 desc="Secure Boot support"]] (a non-GPT
     intermediary Tails would never work with Secure Boot enabled)
 - allow us to use simpler, more reliable installers at least on
   Windows and macOS and then:
   - avoids user confusion that results in creating a non-bootable
     device e.g. [[!tails_ticket 13206]]
   - relying on third-party tools becomes less painful
 - pave the way to a self-extracting file offered for download,
   that would bundle the disk image, the program used to copy it to
   the target device, and some wrapper that would run that program
   with the right arguments

# Generating

`live-build` can generate `hdd` images. Alternatively, we can
post-process our ISO image to create a USB-bootable disk image.

Open questions:

 - What size should the system partition be? Do we grow the system
   partition on first boot (from the initramfs) e.g.
   with [[!debpts cloud-init]] or the Rasbian tools
   (https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/,
   https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/)?
 - What about DVD support? Can we stop distributing an ISO image
   some day?

# Distributing

XXX: impact on mirrors' storage space?

# Installing

## from Windows

XXX

### Win32 Disk Imager

[[!tails_ticket 14447]]

## from macOS

XXX

## from Linux

_GNOME Disks_ has a _Restore Disk Image_ feature that basically does
`dd` with a nice progress bar.

# Upgrading

This approach does not make full, manual upgrades any simpler. For the
ideas we have to fix that other problem, see [[!tails_ticket 11131]]
and [[blueprint/Endless_upgrades]].
