[[!meta title="Translate Tails website into a new language"]]

There are already some active website translation teams,
coordinating via the [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]].

So, you want the Tails website to be available in a new language.
Please keep in mind that it represents quite a lot of work.

Therefore, here are a few things that would be required in order to start
translating the Tails website to a new language:

1. A team of translators, not just one person, is necessary. That also
   allows for peer reviews between the team, more flexibility for
   example when an important deadline arrives.

2. At least part of the team should subscribe to the [[mailing list
   for translators|translate#follow-up]].

3. Since the content of the website is sensitive in terms of privacy
   protection, Tails developers need to establish contacts with
   trusted people to review the work from time to time.

4. For translations to be useful, they need to be maintained in the
   long run. This takes a few hours a month.

Once those conditions are fulfilled, the new team can start working on a first
batch of translations.

  - The Tails custom programs, as [[documented earlier|translate#translate]]

  - Important parts of our website:

    - [[/index]]
    - [[/about]] page
    - [[/getting_started]] page
    - [[/support]] page
    - [[/download]] page
    - [[/doc/about]] section
    - [[/doc/first_steps]] section

    See the exhaustive list of [[core pages|l10n_tricks/core_po_files.txt]].

Do not hesitate to report the progress of your work on the [[mailing list for
translators|translate#follow-up]].
