[[!meta title="Translate Tails into French"]]

**For French**, the existing translators team uses Git.
So, read [[translating with Git|translate/translate_with_git]].

## What can be translated

For french, various bits of text can be translated via Git:

* **Custom programs** (Tails Greeter, Tails Persistence Setup, Tails
  Installer, Tails Upgrader, Tails Perl library and WhisperBack): each
  one has its own [[Git repository|contribute/git]], where PO files
  live in the `po` directory. Some have a `README.translators` at the
  root of their source tree: please read it.
* **A set of various translatable strings** live in the `po`
  directory, in the `devel`
  branch of the [[main Tails Git repository|contribute/Git]].
* **This website** must be translated in the `master` branch of the
  [[main Tails Git repository|contribute/Git]]. Please note [[there
  are requirements|translate#new-language]] to translate the website
  into a new language.

## Glossaries used by the french team

http://open-tran.eu/

## Team duties

Our custom programs can be translated [[using
Transifex|translate/translate_with_transifex]]. Work done there is not automatically
synchronized with the translations your team does in Git.

It is nice to minimize time wasted by unknown people who work, with
Transifex, on the same thing as your translation team.

So, a translation team using Git should regularly contact Transifex
translators (listed in the `Last-translator` field of the PO files one
can download from Transifex), either over email or using the Transifex
interface, to:

1. Thank them for translating Tails stuff.
2. Make it clear their work is not imported (and is therefore, well,
   useless).
3. Invite them to join the team and share the team's
   preferred workflow.
4. Invite them to subscribe to [[the mailing list for
   translators|translate#follow-up]].
