[[!meta title="Translate Tails using Weblate"]]

The Tails website, which includes the Tails [[documentation|doc]], can
be translated using the [Tails translation
platform](https://translate.tails.boum.org). Using this platform is
easy: you are not required to set up complicated tools to start
translating.

The Tails translation platform is an instance of
[Weblate](https://weblate.org/), and the full documentation for
translators is available on the [Weblate translators
guide](https://docs.weblate.org/en/latest/user/index.html).

Below you will find instructions on how to get started translating the
Tails website.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Create and configure an account

You don't need an account on the translation platform to suggest translations.
On the other hand, if you want to vote for suggestions, use a dashboard for
a better translation workflow, and eventually request to become a reviewer,
then you do need to create an account.

Steps to create and configure an account:

1. Access the [registration
   page](https://translate.tails.boum.org/accounts/register/), fill the form
   with an **E-mail** address, a **Username**, a **Full name** and the answer
   to the mathematical question to prove you're not a spammer robot. There's
   no need to use your real name here, you can even repeat the username in the
   full name field. Then, click the **Register** button.
1. Check your e-mail inbox, you should receive a message by
   **root@tails.translate.boum.org** with a verification link to activate
   your account. Access that link and choose a new passphrase for your
   account. You should leave the **Current password** field empty if you have
   just activated the account and it's the first time you set up a password
   for this account.
1. Configure the languages you want to work with in the translation
   platform. The languages you select in **Translated languages** will
   appear on your dashboard so it's easier for you to access
   them. **Secondary languages** will be shown as references during
   translation to try and make your work easier. Then, click **Save**.

# Explore the translation platform

On the Tails translation platform, a *translation component* corresponds to the
translation of one page of the Tails website to a specific language. The
translation platform will only show components for the languages you have
configured on your account.

## The Dashboard

The **Dashboard** is the first page that appears when you log in to the Tails
translation platform. It offers different views of translation components for
the languages you have configured. It contains a series of useful tabs, in the
following order:

- **Watched translations:** lists the components you have selected to
  watch.
- **Your languages:** lists all components registered in the platform
  for your configured languages.
- **Suggested translations:** lists a bunch of untranslated components
  suggested to you by the Weblate platform.
- **Core pages:** lists most important components to be translated, as
  selected by the Tails translation team.
- **Persistence:** lists components of the *Encrypted persistence*
  section of the Tails documentation.
- **Install & upgrade:** lists components of the *Download and install
  Tails* section of the Tails website.
- **First steps:** lists components of the *First steps with Tails*
  section of the Tails documentation.
- **Anonymous internet:** lists components of the *Connect to the
  Internet anonymously* section of the Tails documentation.
- **Insights:** gives you access to the history, activity and statistics
  of the translation platform.
- **Tools:** gives you access to search and other information about the
  contents of the Tails translation platform.

In all tabs that list translation components, you will see the same columns
with information about each of the listed components:

 - **Project:** lists the full name of the component, which should match
   it's place in the Tails website.
 - **Translated:** shows the percentage of strings in the component that
   are already translated.
 - **Words:** shows the percentage of words in the component that are
   already translated.
 - **Review:** shows the percentage of strings in the component that are
   waiting for review.
 - **Checks:** shows the number of strings in the component that the
   system identified as needing to be verified. The list of things to
   check will appear in the component view on top of the right column.
 - **Suggestions:** shows the number of strings in the component that
   have suggestions that need to be evaluated.

As you move around and start translating, each of the above will become more
clear.

## Translation components

As stated above, a *translation component* in the Tails translation platform
corresponds to the translation of one page of the Tails website to a specific
language. The *component overview* gives access to the translation status of
that component and the strings that need to be checked.

To access a *component overview*, start from the Dashboard, select one of the
tabs (as explained in the previous section), and click the name of the
component in the left column of the components table. From the component
overview page, you can go to the different translation pages for untranslated
strings, strings marked as needing editing, strings with suggestions, etc. You can
also go directly from the Dashboard to the different translation pages of
a component by clicking on the links on the other columns of the component
table.

Find your way around. The translation platform might look a bit full of
corners at first, but once you get used to the different ways through
which you can reach the translation workflow you'll start getting
translation work done.

# Translation workflow

## Suggest translations and vote for suggestions

On the Tails translation platform, you can always either *suggest* a new
translation or *vote* for an already suggested translation. There is no way to
directly save your translation. _This is intentional_, to make sure that
mandatory peer review happens before new translations get accepted.
Suggestions have to be accepted by reviewers to go live onto the main Tails
website.

In order to *suggest* a new translation, access a component translation page as
described in the last section, fill or modify the **Translation** field in the
*Translate* box, and then click **Suggest**. You will be automatically taken to
the next string in the list that you are currently accessing. You may make use
of the *External translation* tab which might show automatic suggestions from
Weblate's internal "translation memory".

In order to *vote* for or against a suggestion, find a component with
suggestions in the Dashboard and either click directly in the number of
suggestions in the component list or access the component overview page and
then click *Strings with suggestions*. You will be taken to the respective
component translation page. In the tabs below the *Translate* box, click
**Suggestions**, and you'll be presented with a list of suggestions for that
string. Evaluate the suggestion carefully, and then choose to either *Vote for*
or *Vote against*.

<a id="preview"> </a>

## Preview translations using the staging website

A [staging website](https://staging.tails.boum.org/) is made available and
includes:

- The most recent version of the main Tails website.
- A possibly larger number of languages than the ones that are activated on the
  main website,
- All most voted suggestions made through the translation platform, choosing
  the most recent one when there are many suggestions with the same number of
  votes.

With this, everyone can see how the current translations and suggestions look
like before they go live on the Tails website.

Beware, the staging website is visually indifferent from the Tails main
website.

## Reviewers

Reviewers are users that can accept suggestions. A request to become a
reviewer can be sent to the [[mailing list for
translators|contribute/how/translate#follow-up]]. An administrator will verify
that a reasonable amount of work was done by the requesting translator
before the request is accepted.

Reviewers are asked to not bypass the review process for their own work,
except perhaps to fix obvious and important problems. This means that as
a reviewer, for your own translations, you should also use the
*suggestion* feature.

# Request the activation of a new language

The activation of a new language on the translation platform has to be
requested through the [[mailing list for
translators|contribute/how/translate#follow-up]]. Have in mind that it
is suggested to have a team of translators to [[translate the Tails
website into a new language|contribute/how/translate/team/new/]].
Maintaining a glossary within the team is also advisable.

A newly included language **will not** automatically show up on the main
Tails website, only on the [[staging
website|contribute/how/translate/with_translation_platform#preview]].

A new language can only be activated on the main [Tails
website](https://tails.boum.org) when at least [[25% of the core pages
have been translated|contribute/how/translate/team/new/]]. And by
translated we mean: translated and accepted by a reviewer. Once that is
the case, the activation of a new language on the main Tails website has
to be requested through the [[mailing list for
translators|contribute/how/translate#follow-up]].

# Getting help

If you experience a technical problem, please send a message to the
mailing list of the translation platform administrators
[[tails-translations@boum.org|about/contact#tails-translations]].

If you have questions about translating for Tails, please contact the
[[mailing list for translators|contribute/how/translate#follow-up]].

If you want to know more about the technical side of the translation platform,
read the [[design documentation|contribute/design/translation_platform]].
