[[!meta title="Translate Tails and its website using Git"]]

While it is possible to translate Tails custom programs using Transifex,
this website, which includes the Tails [[documentation|doc]], can only
be translated using Git.

This page explains how to get it up and running.

[[!toc levels=2]]

# Set up your tools

We recommend to use Tails to do your translations as it contains all the tools
you need to set up a working environment.

If you want to use another operating system, these tools are:

* Git - manage source code
* Poedit - translate files
* OpenSSH client - publish your translations on the server
* tools to [[build a local copy of the website|contribute/build/website/]] in
  order to check how it will look like

If you do not use Tails, please ensure that you use at least version 1.5 of Poedit,
as this version handles line breaks correctly.

The following instructions assume that you are using Tails.

# How and what to translate?

Once you have [[downloaded the Tails source code using Git|translate/with_Git#workflow]],
you can find the website source files in `wiki/src`.

The original website files are written in English, either in [[!wikipedia HTML]] or in [[!wikipedia Markdown]]. They have either a
`.html` or a `.mdwn` extension.

These original files are not to be modified by translators. Instead, look for a file with the
same name, but with the extension `.po`. Before this extension you will find the language code,
for example `fr` for French.

To edit these PO files, we recommend that you use <span
class="application">[Poedit](http://www.poedit.net/screenshots.php)</span>, a
cross-platform editor for PO files.

When setting up Poedit, you might want to ensure to use "Tails translators"
or "Tails developers" as translator name and "tails@boum.org" as translator
contact email address.

If you do not use Poedit, but for example Vim or Emacs with the po-plugin, please
verify for each translation that the syntax of the files is not broken. In order to do
do so, please refer to the [[localization tricks page|contribute/l10n_tricks]].

If there is no existing PO file for your language, you can copy the
corresponding `.pot` file into a new `.po` file.

<a id="workflow"></a>

# Workflow

Git makes it possible to work together on the same files and to track each modification.
If you don't know Git yet, you might want to [[learn it first|contribute/git#learn_Git]].

Here is the typical workflow used by Tails translation teams.

If there is any point which you don't understand, please do not hesitate to
ask on the [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]], we will be glad to help you.

1. **Set up your own repository**

   In order to set up your own repository, you need to host it on a publicly accessible
   Git server. There are a lot of websites providing you with such a possibility.

   If you already know where to host it in a public place, this is great;
   else, [fork us on GitLab](https://gitlab.com/Tails/tails) or [[ask
   the Tails system administrators|contribute/git#creating-a-new-repository]] to host
   your repository.

2. **Copy the source code from the main repository**

   You first need to setup a [[persistent volume|doc/first_steps/persistence]]
   to save the source code. Then navigate to the persistent folder, using the terminal:

       cd ~/Persistent

   Get the source code:

       git clone https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails

   This operation requires some time at setup, as it requires pulling the whole repository.

3. **Add your repository**

   Navigate to the folder containg the source code, using the terminal:

       cd tails

   To publish your translations, you need to add the repository set up previously.
   The URL of your repository should look like `tails@git.tails.boum.org:elouann/tails`.
   If you cannot find the URL of your repository, get in touch with the sysadmins or send
   an email to the [[mailing list|translate#follow-up]]. Once you've got it, add it to
   your local repository:

       git remote add myrepo tails@git.tails.boum.org:elouann/tails

   Typing `git remote` should now show two entries:

       origin
       myrepo

   More specifically, if you type `git remote -v`, you'll see something like this:

       myrepo	tails@git.tails.boum.org:elouann/tails (fetch)
       myrepo	tails@git.tails.boum.org:elouann/tails (push)
       origin	https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails (fetch)
       origin	https://git-tails.immerda.ch/tails (push)

   To check if the repository is correctly configured, run the following command:

       git fetch --all

   If you have a problem with SSH keys or with the URL of your repository, get in touch
   with the sysadmins or send an email to the [[mailing list|translate#follow-up]].

3. **Configure your credentials**

   Now to setup Git, type:

       git config user.name "Your nickname"
       git config user.email "Your email adress"
       git config apply.whitespace error

   Verify this configuration by typing:

       git config --list

4. **Create a branch**

   Create a branch for every translation you make, for example, if you want to
   translate the "contribute" page, create a branch named `translate/contribute`:

       git branch translate/contribute
       git checkout translate/contribute

   Now typing `git branch` should show a star in front of the active branch:

         master
       * translate/contribute

5. **Translate!**

   You can use your preferred PO file editor, for example, *Poedit* which is included in Tails.

6. **Save your translations**

   Add your changes, then commit

       git add -p
       git commit

7. **Test your work**

   [[Build the website locally|contribute/build/website/]] in order to verify
   your modifications or to review the translations of somebody else.

   If you need to rework something, go back to step 5, translate, and test again.

8. **Merge our main repository into yours**.

   Regularly, pull from the `master` branch of the main repository to update
   your local files.

   `git fetch origin master` only fetches new files, while

   `git pull origin master` fetches and merges the files.

9. **Publish your modifications**

   Push your changes to your online Git repository:

       git push myrepo <name of branch>

   For example,

       git push myrepo translate/contribute

10. Ask other members of your translation team to review your work by writing
   an email to [[the mailing list for
   translators|translate#follow-up]], containing in its subject
   "(Review)" and the short code for the translated language, for example "[fr]".

11. The reviewer, once happy with the result, should ask on the
   [[mailing list for translators|translate#follow-up]] to pull from
   the branch that was worked on, writing an email with "(pull)" and the language
   short code in the subject. Ideally, such email would be signed with OpenPGP.

Each [[language team|translate#language-teams]] keeps track of the repositories of its contributors.
To add one of these repositories as a `remote` in Git, use the following command line:

    git remote add [name] https://git-tails.immerda.ch/[name]/tails.git

For example:

    git remote add mercedes508 https://git-tails.immerda.ch/mercedes508/tails.git

# More informations and resources

The translation system used to translate Tails is called <span
class="application">[[!wikipedia gettext]]</span>. Every sentence that
needs to be translated is written in a [PO
file](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/gettext.html#PO-Files)
by [ikiwiki](https://ikiwiki.info).

The `\[[!wikipedia ..]]` strings you can find in some files are ikiwiki [[shortcuts]].
You might also need to understand [[ikiwiki directives|ikiwiki/directive]].

See also [[localization tricks page|contribute/l10n_tricks]].
